

Now let's join Mr. Jose Silva during an instructor training session here in Laredo, Texas, as he answers questions about the silver method techniques for instructors and instructor
candidates. He starts off here talking about how to be more successful in life and with the Silva method techniques. So let's come in, take a seat and listen in to Mr. Jose Silva.

You go to Alpha where you have succeeded, go to Alpha and strengthen the feeling of success where you succeeded, the way you succeeded, go over whatever you did where you were successful to reinforce it. And that's a good foundation to keep on succeeding. 

Now we used to say you reach a success with a ladder of failures. Eventually success. Its wrong. We reach greater successes with a ladder of lesser successes but always your foundation should be success before. Its not your failure.

So reinforce your successes to make them appear more frequent and stronger for there on. Better they should get by reinforcing at Alpha your experiences of having succeeded. And nobody will know the feeling of success until you succeed. There's no way to explain to anybody how it feels to succeed. It's a very unusual feeling when you succeed. `Wisdom is a combination of feelings of success, that's wisdom. So accumulation of feelings of success then it's wisdom.`

Now Mr. Silva is answering a question about what to do when your programming is not working. For instance the to-awake control technique is not working. How would you deal with it? Let's listen in on his answer. 

Let's talk about that. Anytime you consider a problem while working in these dimensions, any kind of problem. Anything you consider is a problem. You'll be getting in your way of becoming effective let's say you will consider a problem. 

You are aware of a problem enter your level and work with your own problem. Make the statement this is what's happening. I don't want this to happen. From here on this and this and this is going to happen. Make a correction right there, and you will respond. But you can control yourself at alpha. By programming yourself at alpha, to bring about the corrections that you have encountered on the way of becoming successful. So anything you consider a problem, you cannot correct it out here, go to your level and make the statement as to what's happening. I don't want this. It's getting in my way to succeed. From here on it's not going to happen anymore. Be ready to go on. By programming at your level, you get exactly the way you want it. You can say it last night. I was laughing out earlier than I figured, than I planned. The next time it's going to be right on time. You go over it last night. It was one hour late. It's going to be exactly here go until you get it. But say that your level. And visualize it. Imagine the end results. Visualize what is happening to you as a problem and then imagine you getting up right on time. 

Any questions?

Now let's listen. And as Mr. Silva talks about some of the early research that he did and how he discovered the value, the tremendous value of the alpha level. Let's listen in now. 

Let's do a little bit in the history. And I was studying psychology. Remember I came across a term hypnosis. I went into that field to study it. Came across by psychology. I went into that field to study it. Came across a long came the term electrocephalography and I went into this section. I was just studying. 

So I started experimenting with people with checking their brains to see. And I found this is why I started this. I wanted to know for instance. Okay, so now what am I going to do with the electrocephalography? Brain frequency is okay. Check the brain frequencies. Now of course we have delta and beta and so forth. Now I wanted to know which is the strongest of all these frequencies. Which is at what level should we operate on? More than the else. Because I found that 90% of which we're thinking on beta. I noticed that because I put a digital counter and the EEG to see in numbers brain waves. Not wiggles on this graph.
So then I will be looking at the digital counter. When I'm talking to the individual who he's thinking. I asked him a question. He answered the question. It says in 2020, 2020. How would you solve a problem? 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20. 

Then 10% would answer the question to answer they go to 10. And then come back to 20, tell me the answer. As they went to Alpha to get the answer, they give it to me in 20. And I said, what's going on here? So I found out that 90% who use 20 to think on or at and 10% they think at 10. 

Then I wanted to know which is the best of the two then. I'm not going to do to know which is better. Just to say, well, what about strengths? Well, first thing, I went for a synchronization, which is more stable of the two. Is the five of more stable than 20 or is 20 more stable because you can do that than 10. More synchronized. 10 was more synchronized than 20. Interesting. I said, now what else can I do? Which is the strongest of the two. I mean, just to say something, again 10 was stronger than 20.

And I said, can you imagine if this is the best place to think on in 90% of people are going to be thinking on 20. Now you get, hook up a child 20. I said, how would you solve this problem? What would you do about this problem? Well, the child maybe 10, 12 years old. He is a well, he has ideas, you know, how would you get in a car when I will wash the car, what would you do about it? What else do you do? Well, we know the wheels too. Okay, cars and wheels. And well, they already ate her also. And then I would polish it up, you know, and so on and so on. Once he runs out of ideas, what else would you do? If you need to brighten up a car for us and make it look better. Well, they run out of ideas. 

Get them to 10 and they keep them more ideas. What to do about it? How can you use a pencil? How many uses can you use a pencil for? And it's things like this. What's your race to write to, you're thinking about it here, whatever it is, you know, all kinds of uses for the pencil. But at 20, they run out of answers or ideas and at 10 they are going to come up with more, they thought they had run out of them. There's more information at alpha. That's the benefit. And the benefit is you have information to solve more problems because all problems require information to get the solution to correct them. And information is spiritual. Information is being thought(sought?) up. It's mental something. All right. So this is the very, well, major benefits at alpha.

Now let's listen in as Mr. Silva, answer some questions and give some detail about the memory pegs and the mental screen, what it's like, the use of it, visualization, imagination, and so forth. Let's listen in again as he talks to instructors.


## mental screen. 

On your mental screen, eyes should be close, close 20 degrees upwards, and about 30 feet away from you, not right here, like you'll see here. And the mental screen is this level all around your mental screen. You can see behind you what's the size if you need to. You can imagine you're seeing you visualize mentally behind you, but around you. This is your mental screen, mainly here. So right in front of you is the present. You want to visualize, imagine and visualize. `You have to imagine first to then later visualize`. You have to create an image first of number one a glass of tea up there. Now what you do it after later when you repeat it, you're visualizing your own creation that you imagine first. So do this for all the pegs, a glass of tea, and then keep going Noah. On and on and no. If my eyes are closed, I slightly turned upwards and away from you, not right here, away from you. When you head about, mental screen is up there. Now there, this human screen. This way you're going to project imagery or to detect when you visualize on your mental screen. `Mental screen is the transfer from one dimension to the other`, from one aspect to the other where you're receiving or transmitting it shows on your mental screen. `So to transmit it, you project it to your mental screen. To detect it, you sense it in your mental screen.` 

Now the numbers, represent letters and letters represent numbers. One, a T, two, an N, three, an M, and so on. Now the individual who put this together heard a rain, Bruno first found us of these systems, memory work.

Our intention is not to give you a memory course, but ought to give you something to work with is used in memory courses to enhance the use of our mental screen. That's all. To become clairvoyance. They don't know about this, about clairvoyance, or whatever. It's our field. Their field is to get you to improve your memory. Our field is to get you to improve your clairvoyance through parts of that system because you have to do with picture, mental picture farming and associating. 

As you know, visualization and imagination are important components of good mental functioning. Let's listen to Mr. Silva now as he talks about visualization and imagination and answer some questions about it. 

11 Minutes 55 seconds

What is visualization? A previous impression, impression of your brain or mind. It's a receiving detecting mechanism. We can visualize with the left brain hemisphere, we can visualize with the right brain hemisphere. In other words, in order to perceive it with the left brain hemisphere, it must exist. Whether somebody created something and is over the sense of sight then you make an impression of your brain. Your sense of sight works like a camera and make an impression of your brain. Left brain and a duplicate is transferred to the right brain. Receiving information. Receiving information. Receiving information or energy. This one. This is transmitter receiver. This is transmitter. Visualization is a receiver. Imagination is a transmitter. 

You can also visualize with the right. But in this case, you can visualize what has been impressed on somebody else's brain. This is why if a person sees your thousand miles away and you know about that person and you want to know how seriously hurt he is or injured, you go to your level to know your inner brain and the right brain functions on a different band like FM does, not AM, and you're tuning into his brain and getting information with brain and transferring it to yours. 

Then you will know what happened to him. Because every day it's happened to him, he's been recorded with his brain already. Are we getting it by observing visual visually, sensibly biological senses or left brain or right brain at a distance? If we need to. Now usually all of this becomes a lot easier if your intention is to help the individual to solve his problem. Not just to know. That's, you don't go far enough. Just to know, eventually you would not perceive anything. You're just trying to have fun wanting to know for no purpose whatsoever. 

The purpose is to follow through to help the individual to correct his problem, service problem, keeping him suffering. That's your main purpose. So we say the brain and the mind, left brain, right brain, we're created to detect information that we can consider that we don't want and make a correction and so on. 

`So information that we cannot perceive it with the left, we perceive it with the right.` But we must follow through with the intention of helping and correct the problems. Because that's what we're here for. We were sent to planet Earth to correct problems that cause people to suffer, to make this planet a better place to live. And that's it for no, other use. Now we're using it to steal from others, to hurt others to kill others and it's wrong. 

Because that's all left brain. If they could develop the right brain, they wouldn't even attempt it because it becomes spiritual. They become fully developed human beings. A person who uses only that for hemisphere cannot fully evolve into becoming a human being. And just keep in mind that a human being is not one who looks like one, is one who acts like one. To be considered a human being, you must participate, take part in humanitarian acts. Then you have qualified and passed the test to be considered a human being.

If you do not take a part in humanitarian acts, you have not yet be in a position to be considered a human being. Do you not be interested in the words? Now, everybody knows the difference between visualization and imagination. `Keep in mind that we visualize and imagine what the left we visualize and imagine what the right is`. NOT CLEAR WHAT HE SAYING HERE. 

Imagination with the left is fantasy or rearranging what exists. So it'll serve a better something, whatever that is. But what you're doing is altering what exists, modifying it to get better results out of it. That's left brain imagination. The right brain imagination is creating something that has never happened, that has not occurred yet. That's the beginning of creation. The beginning of  inventions. The beginning of discoveries. That has done what happens for the first time. That's right brain imagination. The visualization means the same thing, the detective information. One's the information in the objective world and the other the right brain detective information in this subjective world. 

Now here's some insight and suggestions and ideas dealing with the three fingers technique and how to use that to help you improve your memory. Mr. Silva also gave some tips to the lecturer candidates about how to use it when they're making public speeches. May command handy for you sometime. Let's listen in.

I remember the three finger is a trigger mechanism that reminds you of something that you have programmed it for. If you want to give a lecture to an audience and you kind of tied about it or concerned, programm it, reinforce it before you enter the stage with the three finger techniques. Then while they're, how do you feel the techniques? One hand or the other hand of your lecture where it is. It comes to you easier. You're more calm, you're more natural in delivery where you need to have those natural. I always believe that you have something of value to best on to others. It doesn't matter how you present it, it's as long as you translate the information and they understand it. That's the value that they can use for themselves and benefit by it. They don't clear how you give it to them. Just as long as they understand it and we have to use it from their own, whatever it is that you pass on to them please.

I always consider value. Now for we, like, and recalling a test, we say, you prepare yourself before programming yourself that the last thing you're going to read because you're going to open your eyes and focus. Focusing is beta. So you have to prepare yourself. You've got to sandwich in what you're going to get before, pre, and then post, program yourself. I want to reach the lesson and mention subject name and title, whatever. You go by like you're, you're picking it, you're classifying it, to know what's that, what to look for, such type, such number, whatever you're picking it, subject matter, and the title of the lesson if you have a title, whatever. 

Then you come out of your level, you did this, you recorded, and then reach your lesson. After you reach your lesson and to your level again and strengthen the programming, what lessons that I have heard, if I need to record a timely future, this lesson, title, this subject matter, or I need this, I need to come back in my mind, fresh in my mind again. There's two different ways to listen in the lecture, one hand the other, all the time. Prepare before and after as you are at the lesson, if you want to read it on me. People who work with computers. If you index it and market with your index, number, or letter, whatever, it's like associating tick with the name. With the index, time and so forth, by association, you remember the material. Like here, by association, we remember, if we remember one, or number two, or number three, or number four, depending on what peg attached to you with a T, or NOAA, or made calendar, or whatever, since the index information. 

Of course, we want to index, index, information of value or not, or trifle things, because we get a computer cleared up with invaluable things, nonsense. Only the most things that we value the most should be paid indexed or something to go back when we need them. Yes. 

Sometimes, Mr. Silva encountered a lot of opposition to the work that he was doing. It was so new that people didn't understand it, and often things that are new tend to scare people. Here's one of the stories when he was first getting started just before he went out and did that first class up in Amarilla, Texas. Got some people all shook up until they stopped to think about it and realized how much benefit there was in what he was doing. Let's listen in as he tells this story.

You see, the main problem there that really started all the whole thing, a commotion was in William Baptist University, when we set up a project with the students, 50 students going for a degree of psychology, making some females. To be able to see, to get a training, and to see if they could guess the right answer to the multiple choice tests, without really the lesson, without studying the lesson, and they all got a passing race. 

This is when some psychiatrists were saying, these crimes would destroy the educational system, because they don't have to study to pass, and then why about experience? All those were saying, what would be the experience, if they know what to do when they meet up with the problem? So, what did the experience come in? Well, I mean, it was like this. And now that, and the whole scene, you heard about it, the kids who were, to the parents, weren't happening over there. And the discussions and arguments that they were having, this is why we're spread out, and he helped us to promote our work, that's how they heard about it, and we were called to go lecture to what happened, and this group got the first class, and we took off from there. First class was the neighborhood of Texas, 90s or 80s. I'm a real Texas. I mean, paid class, we get lessons in the radio, experiments, but nobody paid anything. We want to charge anybody for it, because they're helping us to research. That was the first paid class that we got, April, was started in September, 1966,
in Emerald, Texas. First time we got paid for our service. You never got the one single nickel out of it, since 1944, since 1966.

Are you ready for another history lesson? Let's listen in on Mr. Silva, as he explains how he conducted some experiments that helped him to understand how the body's healing mechanism works, and how the mind can be used to accelerate the healing process. Here he is. 

I was testing this individual with two senses, at the one time, for positive hallucinations. I had a piece of stainless steel, you know, the color of steel. With a pair of pliers, the individual should see a red hot, positive hallucinations, seeing it more than what's there, red hot. I want to touch his screen. I touched his screams. I burned him, you know, cold. He felt the burn. He felt the hot positive hallucinations. He detected more than what was there.

But 90% of subjects said, you do this too. Develop a real red spot. You read that. That's where they were burning with boiling water or something like that. But 10% developed a blister. I was lucky to see that phenomena. My subject developed a blister. So what happened here? 

I didn't burn him, you know. Did I fool the healing process of the natural healing process of the body? To send healing chemistry to a spot that does not need it. Sure. Will the blister to be new skin under it and get rid of that burnt skin, where it's not burnt? Then I figured, can we say then extra healing chemistry to accelerate the healing process where it's needed? Of course, you can do the same thing. If you do one, you can do the other. Look what's in there. 

So some of these things came through in experimenting with hypnosis. But then I found that the deeper a person went, the more they forgot. At a certain level, they start forgetting. If you want them to forget everything, then you suggest them to forget everything. If you don't want them to forget, you need them to remember everything and they will. But if you leave them alone, the deeper they go, the more they forget. If you find them, they forget everything. They don't remember nothing. He runs them to remember, he has to tell them to remember it, then they will. But naturally, they won't. You keep on working with them, hours after hours after hours after hours after hours after hours and so forth and so on. If you find them, they start remembering the little bits.

They got over here, like before. Then more hours there, sorry, remember more. And more, and more so as a dream and so forth, they find them to remember everything. And when they were at a level where we could remember everything, not like in hypnosis, so when we found that it was happening, they were coming up to Alpha from Theta. At Theta, it's a deep issue going into hypnosis. They were coming to be at a time, once they finally got to Alpha and they remember everything. They just talk to you and everything, make it work. Because even as I said in Theta, I never asked questions that are mainly functioning inductively, like when they were about seven years of age, they were taking to five cycles of Theta. He says, oh, he's comparing them to when they were five years old.

Why did they forget? Because now they're 50, but 45 years ago, I can't remember. In comparison, if you're bringing them out of hypnosis. So there as five, mind functioning inductively, they cannot formulate a question. They can answer questions, but they never ask questions, because they're not able to, in a set of hypnosis. So we find out at what level we can become active, this is how we discovered the Alpha dimension. 

Mr. Silva now discusses a little bit about the way that the glove anesthesia works for different people. Now for some people, they get a great effect in class with other people later when there's a problem and they need to use it. They get the effect with it. Let's listen to him explain what his experience has been with that. 

If a person had been going to Theta, this is effective for them immediately in the first time he tried. Some others part of it, they've been going near there, but not quite. And the ones who don't feel any changes, we eventually develop it with practice, or when they get injured, whenever they hurt, remember it, and he works immediately. 

A whole thing, as long as you went to the whole procedure, pain is gone, in control of bleeding in many cases. What if it is cooler, it has taken effect already. Let's prove that what you've done already is responding. It may not get cooler in class, what we practice really will, if you apply it again, but you must apply anesthesia, anesthetize it, decide to have it, especially when you get hurt, the formula is there, it works immediately. But the pain is the extra factor that makes you work, the reality.

Bad habits are one of the worst enemies of humanity. They debilitate us and they keep us from having the options to choose what we want to do in life and really be successful. They're also one of the most difficult things to correct, even with our system, because they have a built-in rewarding mechanism. What you have to do, of course, is to find something else that you won't even more than the habit. Here's Jose Silva with what he's found, talking about what he's found in his research about habits and how to deal with them and how to tackle them and what to do to correct them. Let's listen to Jose Silva, speaks to instructors about dealing with habits. 

Habits are the most difficult thing to correct with our system, because the person needs to cooperate. If you don't cooperate, you're not using your mind, okay? Now, the habit, for instance, the easiest one to correct is the eating habit. One that's worse than this is smoking habits. One is worse than smoking, alcoholics, drinking habits, and the worst one of all is drug habits.

They're older. You can correct, not easier, smoking is you can drink, not easier, drinking is you can drugs. Habits are the worst thing to learn because a habit is a rewarding mechanism. A while in the world we have it, because you are selected in the joint rewards, the benefits you get from it, good feeling, whatever. Now, some things are addictive. The light one for instance is caffeine, then nicotine, then comes alcohol, then comes drugs, in the order. Now, what is the person, what person is the most difficult to correct the habits? What person, after the verb to have it, would be the easiest to correct the habits? The worst of all is a young person who is not married and has no profession, it's not children, it's not. 

It's a worse one of all. The easier would be a married person, or a person with children, professional, would be not easier to correct, because they're responsible in this and so forth in their order. So, in between, depends how much do you have, young, but you're married, or you're young, you have children, it's all different changing, there are variables here. But the rewarding mechanism,
you cannot take the rewarding mechanism from them and leave them with nothing. You need to exchange one reward for another, and for them, you like the others much as the first one to be able to drop what they're doing, or else there's no way. It doesn't matter
how, what do you use them, how you do it, if you stop, it's really going to be more of a stop. Periods. But you see, we don't want you to do that later, as Darts remember, we used to smoke, and smoke rings, you know, you see it, you have fun, you know. You study matching in this, you don't get `how strong you will is, imagination always wins`. So, imagining, you go back to it again.
It's like reinforcing the habit again, but just imagining that you're smoking, that you're blowing, smoking rings, when you're actually smoking at the time. 

And by bringing back a memory, and imagining that, you're going to go back to smoking again, you better get it out of your mind immediately. That's what cancel, cancel. Think of something else. Not just cancel it, but immediately think of something interesting after that, right, after that. You press something in its place, don't leave it with a blank, cancel, cancel, cancel, cancel, cancel, no, cancel, cancel, inject something better in its place, cancel, inject something better in its place, cancel a negative, inject positive, program positive, immediately. Don't leave it, they can hold there, because they come back again. All right, so any questions? In other words, everything is talking imagination. You imagine eating a pile of milk, you're going to get to the pile of milk. You imagine the environment, I didn't want to go get a piece of watermelon, and that's the way it goes. You imagine, you know,
you're back to smoking again, imagine drinking, you go drinking again, imagine the beer, you go drinking, you want to know a beer right now, you think you're a beer, and the taste of beer is so cool, you want to go for a beer again, or any kind of drink, that's all.

One of the most common questions that we get from graduates who call the office here is, why isn't my programming working better? Why aren't I reaching my goals a little more quickly? Do you have some magic formula that we can use? Well, Mr. Silva suggests that we use feedback. Notice what's happening in your life, notice what's going on with your programming and work towards it. So let's close out this tape by listening to him with a few comments about that. Him saying things in such simple ways as he often does, so simple and so direct, about how to really put power in your programming and get it to work for you the way you want it to. Let's listen again.

Remember, take just a step forward, press that backward. As part of it, push your goal. Segment your goal is every section, a succeeding one, this is the other, but when on your way, if you find a problem, and you solve the problem, facing you on your path towards your goal, but then after that you come across another problem. If the second problem is more difficult than the first one, you sort of be thinking notes on this. You solved everything. But now you had this happen. You continue going in the same direction towards your goal and a third problem, more difficult than the second one. The system is telling you this is not the direction to go, but the second problem is that easier than the first one and the third one is easier than the second one, the system says you go ahead, full speed ahead, you're in the right track. 

Something like that, okay? When you use your mind like this, you always must be aware of those conditions taking place, what you're doing, you think whatever that is. And always, whatever your needs are, you may want billions and billions and billions of dollars, you must have planned already what for, not just to have. Money is not just to be had, it's to be put to work. If you were shot dead by this money, then we need to have money held many more, not just you. So always consider that the benefits derived or for more than just you to begin with. But it's only me, me, don't care about nobody else, big question mark. And whenever you ask, remember, ask for no more than what you need, but do ask for no less than what you need, and that's good enough. No less than what you need means what place do you have? Or the big place, you need big something, little place, little something. So don't ask for more than what you need, but do ask for no less than what you need to shoot your plans, okay? 

Hi, I'm Jose Silva Jr. And I want to thank you for choosing the Silva method. Thank you again for choosing to become a better problem solver and making this world a better place to live. You've just heard and absorbed a tremendous amount of wisdom, insight, and information. All of it charged with the power to permanently change your life for the better. But will it? What do you really want out of life? It's a big question. In many ways, it's a very personal question. But when you get right down to it, as different as we all are, the things we're searching for in life are essentially the same. You want to be happy. You want to feel good. You want to enjoy
the time you've been given. You want a job you really love. You want the relationships in your life to be healthy and enriching and wonderful. You want enough money so that you don't have to worry about money. You want to develop the skills to do something meaningful with your life, something that contributes to the world in a positive way and fulfills your sense of purpose. By listening to this program, you've discovered that information does exist to help you become skilled in one area of your life. Now you can get the information to become skilled in absolutely anything, even your spirituality can be strengthened by developing the right skills. And skills, quite simply, are the secret to success. Ask anyone who has ever achieved their dreams. They'll tell you that skills are the key. Many people never learn these kinds of life skills because they're not taught in school. You have to go out and get them on your own. But where do you go? 

The fact that you're listening to this program now means you're already part of the way there. Why not go all the way? We are the Nightingale Conan Corporation. We have been the world's leading producer and publisher of powerful audio information for personal development. But we're much more than just a company. For tens of thousands of satisfied customers around the world, we're their partner in success, a one-stop source for ideas, information, and inspiration to create an extraordinary life. No matter what you want to accomplish in your life right now, we have a program that addresses your needs and interests, whether you're looking to redesign your business, master powerful investing techniques, conquer procrastination, build a better vocabulary, enhance your conversational skills, or raise your consciousness spiritually. Our vast audio program library contains hundreds of titles covering every subject in the personal development spectrum. Our authors are world-renowned experts in their fields. And our information is delivered to you via the most powerful and convenient method available. Audio. Audio learning is today's fastest growing media for training, education, and self-improvement. 

And the reason is simple. Audio programs give you the one thing you need more than anything else. Time. Unlike books, classes, or even internet research, which forced you to find or make time for learning, audio programs actually put more time into your life by turning the hundreds of hours a year you spend driving, commuting, or just lying around into valuable opportunities to build skills, master new ideas, and increase your knowledge. And because audio programs are able to deliver information on a powerful subconscious level, learning is almost effortless. The average person spends at least an hour a day in their car. That's at least seven hours a week, or even more 365 hours in a year. That's incredibly valuable time you could now spend learning, listening to a powerful Nightingale Conan program. You could literally turn your car into a university on wheels. However you happen to come to our family, you've received a great gift. Many people never discover this information, but somehow, for some reason, it did find you. Now, you can become the author of your own destiny by developing the skills that will help you create the life you want. And you can do it with the power of audio learning from the Nightingale Conan Corporation. Visit us at www.nightingale.com. That's www.NIGHTINGALE.com. Happiness, satisfaction, a great family, good health, real career fulfillment, financial peace, a strong focused life purpose. You know the things you want out of life, and you know how to get them. Take that next step. Visit us at www.nightingale.com. This concludes this audio program. This has been a presentation by the Nightingale Conan Corporation.
