
This conditioning exercise is for the Silva Method Three Fingers Technique. Now prepare for this mind training exercise by finding a comfortable position. We will start this exercise with the 3 to 1 method.

Find a comfortable position. Close your eyes. Take a deep breath and while exhaling mentally repeat and visualize the number 3 three times.

Take another deep breath and while exhaling mentally repeat and visualize the number 2 three times. Take another deep breath and while exhaling mentally repeat and visualize the number 1 three times. You are now at level 1, the basic plane level that you are learning to use for a purpose.

Any purpose you desire. To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind I'm going to count from 10 to 1. On each descending number you will feel yourself going deeper. You will enter a deeper, healthier level of mind.

10, 9, feel going deeper. 8, 7, 6, deeper and deeper. 5, 4, 3, deeper and deeper.

2, 1. You are now at a deeper, healthier level of mind. Deeper than before. You may enter a deeper, healthier level of mind by simply relaxing your eyelids.

Relax your eyelids. Feel how relaxed they are. Allow this feeling of relaxation to flow slowly downward throughout your body.

All the way down to your toes. It is a wonderful feeling to be deeply relaxed. A very healthy state of being.

To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind I'm going to count from 1 to 3. At that moment you will project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation. I will then stop talking to you and when you next hear my voice one hour of time will have elapsed at this level of mind. My voice will not startle you.

It will take a deep breath, relax and go deeper. 1, 2, 3. Project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation until you hear my voice again. Relax.

Relax. Take a deep breath and as you exhale relax and go deeper. You will continue to listen to my voice.

You will continue to follow the instructions at this level of the mind and any other level including the outer conscious level. This is for your benefit. You desire it and it is so.

Whenever you mentally or verbally mention the word relax. All unnecessary movements and activities of your body, brain and mind will cease immediately. And you will become completely passive and relaxed physically and mentally.

I may bring you out of this level or a deeper level than this by counting to you from 1 to 5. At the count of 5 your eyes will open. You will be wide awake feeling fine and in perfect health. The difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of their minds and use them in a special manner.

You are now learning to use more of your mind and to use it in a special manner. The following are beneficial statements that you may occasionally repeat while at these levels of the mind. Repeat mentally after me.

My increasing mental faculties are for serving humanity better. Every day in every way I am getting better, better and better. Positive thoughts bring me benefits and advantages I desire.

I have full control and complete dominion over my sensing faculties. At this level of the mind and any other level including the outer conscious level. And this is so.

The following preventive statements are for your better health. Keep in mind that from now on I will occasionally be speaking in your place. I will never learn to develop, physically or mentally, mental disorders, nor psychosomatic or functional ailments or diseases.

I will never learn to develop, physically or mentally, a dependence on drugs or alcohol. Negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me at any level of the mind. I will always maintain a perfectly healthy body and mind.

Mental projection statements for success. I am now learning to attune my intelligence by developing my sensing faculties. And to project them to any problem area.

So as to become aware of any abnormalities. If this is necessary and beneficial for humanity. I am now learning to apply corrective measures and to correct any abnormality I detect.

Negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me at any level of the mind. We will now impress information for your benefit. Programming a formula type technique.

The three fingers technique. At this time bring together the tips of the first two fingers and thumb of either hand. By bringing together the tips of the first two fingers and thumb of either hand, your mind adjusts to a deeper level of awareness for stronger programming.

Stronger programming of information results in easier recall, producing a better memory. To read a lesson, enter level one with the use of the three to one method. Tell yourself mentally that you are going to count from one to three.

And at the count of three, you will open your eyes and read the lesson. Mention the lesson title and subject. Add, noises will not distract me, but will help me to concentrate.

I will have superior concentration and understanding. Count from one to three, open your eyes and read the lesson. When you have read the lesson, once again enter level one with the three to one method.

Tell yourself mentally, I will recall the lesson I have just read. Mention the title and the subject. Anytime in the future, with the use of the three fingers technique.

To hear a lecture, enter level one with the three to one method and tell yourself mentally that you are going to hear a lecture. And mention the title, the subject and the lecturer's name. Tell yourself that you are going to use the three fingers technique.

Keep your eyes open during the lecture. Tell yourself that noises will not distract you, but will help you to concentrate. That you will have superior concentration and understanding.

And that you will recall the lecture. Mention the title, subject and lecturer's name. Anytime in the future, with the use of the three fingers technique.

For test taking with the three fingers technique, follow the three cycle method. First, read your test questions the way you always do. But do not stay too long on any of them.

If you have a ready answer, put it down. If not, skip that question and move to the next one. Second, use the three fingers technique.

And do as in the first cycle, but stay a little longer on the unanswered question. When an answer comes, put it down. If not, skip that question and move to the next one.

Third, use the three fingers technique. Read the unanswered question. And if still no answer comes, close your eyes.

Turn them slightly upward. Visualize or imagine your professor on your mental screen. And ask your professor for the answer.

Then, clear your mind. And start thinking again to figure out the answer. The answer that comes is your professor's.

Write it down. Do not turn in a blank paper. In the next session, we will program the mirror of the mind.

A formula type technique that you can use for problem solving. Later, we will program the hand levitation method for entering deep levels of mind. We will program glove anesthesia for learning the control of physiological pain.

And in many cases, control of bleeding and hemorrhaging. Every time you function at these levels of the mind, you will receive beneficial effects physically and mentally. You may use these levels of the mind to help yourself physically and mentally.

You may use these levels of the mind to help your loved ones physically and mentally. You may use these levels of the mind to help any human being who needs help physically and mentally. You will never use these levels of the mind to harm any human being.

If this be your intention, you will not be able to function within these levels of the mind. You will always use these levels of the mind in a constructive, creative manner. All that is good, honest, pure, clean, and positive, and this is so.

You will continue to strive to take part in constructive and creative activities to make this a better world to live in, so that when we move on, we shall have left behind a better world for those who follow. You will consider the whole of humanity, depending on their ages, as fathers or mothers, brothers or sisters, sons or daughters. You are a superior human being.

You have greater understanding, compassion, and patience with others. In a moment, I'm going to count from one to five. At that moment, you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before.

You will have no ill effects whatsoever in your head, no headache. No ill effects whatsoever in your hearing, no buzzing in your ears. No ill effects whatsoever in your vision and eyesight.

Vision, eyesight, and hearing improve every time you function at these levels of mind. One. Two, coming out slowly now.

Three. At the count of five, you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before. Four, feeling the way you feel when you have slept the right amount of revitalizing, refreshing, relaxing, healthy, wonderful sleep.

Four. Five, eyes open, wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before. This concludes the three fingers technique for the Sova Method.

Thank you.


