
Hi, I'm Jose Silva Jr. and I want to thank you for choosing the Silva Method. This program contains 24 audio sessions with 15 specific formula type techniques to help you. You can take this course at your own pace.

On the first part of each recording is a mini workshop. The workshop is followed by a mind training exercise so that you can program the techniques for your use. Listen to the programs in order. 

Do not skip ahead. You can repeat any program whenever you desire. You can review the explanation and you can also review the mental exercise whenever you wish to reinforce it.

You do not need to listen to the recording all in one sitting. Go at your own pace. Remember, the conditioning cycles require you to close your eyes.

Do not use them when you are driving or when you are involved in any other activity where you must use your eyesight. Wait until you have time to close your eyes and relax. I suggest that you practice the long relaxed cycle.

We also call it the `Silva Centering Exercise`. Practice it several times in order to establish a good, deep level of mind. In fact, we recommend that you continue to practice it at least once a week for the first three months to make sure that you establish a good, deep, healthy level of mind where you can correct all kinds of problems.

If you have any questions, you can contact your local Silva instructor or feel free to contact us here at Aviles Production anytime. We can be of assistance to you. Now let me turn the floor over to Ed Byrne. Ed began presenting the Silva Method in Cocoa Beach, Florida in 1977.

We asked him to join us at the Silva International Headquarters here in Laredo, Texas in 1981 and he has been here ever since. He worked closely with my father and wrote several books with him including Sales Power, The Silva Method for Sales Professionals, The Silva Method, Think and Grow Fit, Jose Silva's Ultramind ESP System, and he had just co-authored a new book with me, Jose Silva's Everyday ESP. I have watched Ed apply these techniques in his own life to become healthier, happier, and more successful.

He has also worked with thousands of Silva graduates to help them overcome problems and to help both themselves and their loved ones. Follow Ed's guidance and you will surely succeed. Now here's Ed.

Thank you, Joe. And thank you for choosing the Silva Method Choose Success Program. Until now, your chances of achieving great success were more a matter of luck of the draw than they were of intelligence and skill and enthusiasm and hard work and persistence and all those other things that the writers of the success books write about.

If you're like me, you've probably read a lot of self-improvement books, attended a lot of seminars, listened to a thousand and one audio tapes, watched people tell their miracle stories on television, and you're still searching for something that will help you the way that other people claim to have been helped by all those other programs. **The truth is that about one person in ten gets any real results from those programs. That's because nine out of ten people are able to think with only their left brain hemisphere.**

Approximately one person in ten is able to think with their right brain hemisphere and then act with their left brain hemisphere. You know what that translates to? The odds are ten to one against your being successful with the success programs that are presented by all those super successful authors and teachers that do that. The simple truth is they don't realize that other people don't function the same way that they do.

That's natural, isn't it? They think that everybody else functions the way that they do. Why should they think otherwise? Scientific research has shown that that's not true. How much does it help to be able to use two brain hemispheres instead of just one? A whole lot.

Imagine this. **Imagine how it would be if most people that you knew thought that they could only use one leg. If everybody else just hopped around on their left leg while you used both of your legs**, you could get around so much faster and easier than they could.

Well, that's what it's like when you use two brains, both your left hemisphere and the right hemisphere of your brain, instead of just one. That's why some people, those super successful people, seem to have so much more ability than the average person. Well, the good news is that **you can now learn to use both of your brain hemispheres to think with**.

You can learn to use more of your brain and more of your mind than the average person so that you will have the ability to achieve great success also. This means you can achieve even greater success in everything that you do from now on. Millions of people already have in 103 countries around the world, 29 different languages where the Silva Method is presented.

What kind of people? Well, research on the effectiveness of the Silva Method has proven that no matter how much or how little success you've had up until now, that you will benefit. Single mothers on welfare in Ottawa County, Michigan, got tremendous benefits from the course. Who could have lower self-image and lower self-esteem than single parents living on welfare? They had tremendous results.

In fact, there was a funny story when state officials came down to check up and see how they were doing and find out all about the program. None of them showed up. They all had jobs.

Executives at RCA Records took the course. They got tremendous benefits from it. These were movers and shakers, people who were already achieving a lot, yet they found that they could achieve a lot more with the help of the Silva Method techniques, learning to use more of their brains and more of their minds.

They had tremendous success with adolescents in inner city schools, with alcoholics, with you name it, people at all levels, educators, even regular people. We've researched them too, regular folks just like you and me. But the main question is, all this research may be good for everybody else and all these things that we've shown.

The main question is, what does it take for you to be successful with this course and to be more successful in your own life? Let's talk about that. **The first thing** that you need if you really want to be successful **is that you've got to want it. You've got to want to be successful.**

So let's talk about that. Let's talk about your reasons for taking this course. You've already invested some money and you're ready to invest some time.

That shows that you have a desire. What is it exactly that you desire? What is it that you hope to get out of this? What kind of benefits? Are they personal benefits, strictly for yourself, the way you feel, the way you function? Do you want to help your family, your loved ones? Do you want to have a family, help a family? Maybe it's career, that you want help in your career. Maybe it has to do with leisure time pursuits and recreational pursuits.

That's the thing that you need most in your life right now. What is the reason that you have right now, the primary reason that you have for wanting to improve your life? Think about that for a moment. What is it that you want? When you achieve that, how will that help you? How will your life be different? That's an important thing to think about and to focus on.

How will your life be different when you get the kind of improvement that you get? Why is that important to you? Why does that make a difference? You know, some people want to find a way to improve themselves so they can earn more money. How will that make their life better? They can provide more for their family, send their children to college perhaps. Why is that important? Because they feel a sense of obligation.

They want their family to do better. They want to be able to provide. That could be what it is.

Some people want to feel better about themselves. They want to boost in confidence and self-esteem. How will that make their life different? Because they'll be able to function better in the world.

They'll have more influence. People will listen to them and pay attention to them and like them. Why is that important? Because it will allow them to do the constructive and creative things that they really want to do with their lives.

So, what are your reasons? It's important to know what those reasons are. Because when you have reasons, when you have reasons for doing what you're doing, then everything that we talk about, you'll filter through those reasons. You'll be thinking about, how can this help me to achieve my goal and why is this important to me to do it? What are the benefits of it? You can increase your desire by thinking of all the benefits of accomplishing your goal.

The benefits to you, the benefits to your loved ones, the benefits to other people that you know. Who else will benefit? The more people who benefit, the greater your desire will be. That all fits in with Mr. Silva's philosophy anyway.

As Silva says, we're not here just to live it up. We're not here for a 70-year coffee break. We have a purpose.

And that purpose is, he feels, to help correct problems on the planet. He says, your obligation is to be the best, whatever it is that you are, to be the best that you can be at that. To be the best parent, the best spouse, the best employee, the best employer.

To be someone who does your job and does it well, and helps to make their world a little better place to live. Now, it's also important to focus on your desire for another reason. So you're going to learn to enter what we call deep levels of mind.

To go within yourself, to use more of your mind and more of your brain. You'll be learning that in this home study course. When you go deep within yourself in that manner, you will be carrying that desire that you have to those deep levels with you.

And that desire at those deep inner levels will really produce results. Remember when you were young? Remember when you were a kid? You had hopes and dreams. You could do anything.

And kids are so wonderful, they think they can do just about anything. They grow up. Look at what happened back in the 60s.

We were going to change the world for the better. We want to get back to that hope, get back to that belief, get back to that idealism that's so natural within us. So take your desire for why you want to take this course, why you want to improve your life, take that desire with you when you practice the exercises that we have.

It will pay big, big dividends. It pays another dividend too. When you have that desire at those inner levels to help people to perform better, to accomplish more things that are good for everybody and that everybody is going to be benefiting, that feeling within you will express itself in what you say and how you say it, the way you act, your body language and everything.

And that's very appealing to other people. You stop and think about that for a minute. People who are really interested in you, people who make you feel better when you're around them, people that you feel it's a benefit to be around.

You like those people. They have what they call charisma. That's how you have that charisma also.

At those deep, deep levels, you have that desire to do things that so many people will benefit from, you, your loved ones, and so many other people. And when that expresses itself as you're dealing with other people, that has a tremendously powerful effect. Now, how are we going to accomplish all of these things that we're talking about? Well, everything that you do is done first in your mind.

Everything starts with the mind. Now, when we talk about that, there's several things that we're talking about. We're speaking of functioning at the **alpha brainwave level**, a slower brain frequency associated with light levels of sleep and dreaming at night, associated with daydreaming when you just kind of kick back and relax and daydream and you're not trying to solve problems or anything.

That's associated with the alpha brainwave level. It's the most powerful of all the brainwave levels. We'll talk about that a little bit more later.

More importantly, **it's at the alpha level that you're able to use both brain hemispheres to think with so that you can make better decisions, you have more information to work with.**  It's at the alpha brainwave level that your intuition works, that your intuition functions, and that's so valuable to you. We'll also talk about positive thinking, thinking the right kind of thoughts that will help you achieve your goals, the right kind of attitude to have.

If you'd like to have a life filled with success, it's your choice. You can choose to be successful and to experience success. We'll talk about exactly how to do that.

Circumstances happen to everybody. Some good things, some things that are not so good. How you choose to deal with them, how you choose to process that information has to do with whether you feel successful in your life or not.

We'll talk about sense of values, too, because that's another important point that we have. Now, talking about how to use your mind, Albert Einstein, remember Albert Einstein? He was, I guess, the greatest genius of our time. He recognized the importance of the mind.

It's not what you know, but it's what you do with your mind. He said that imagination is more important than knowledge. You can get knowledge out of a book somewhere.

Imagination is what enabled him to come up with this theory of relativity. You know what Einstein said? He claimed that he only used 10% of his mind and that the general public probably only uses about 3% or 4%. That's what the Silva Method is all about, learning to use more of your mind.

There's no limit to how far you can go. There's no limit to what you can do because there's no limit to the power of the mind, as far as we can tell. Students of the Silva Method report simple things like being able to stop smoking, to fall asleep without drugs, wake up without clocks, relieve nervousness, stop excessive drinking, memorize long lists, improve creativity, on to the more sophisticated things like developing ESP, using dreams to solve problems and get information.

The most important key to using more of your mind is **learning to function with conscious awareness at the alpha level.** Now, what exactly is the `alpha level?` It's a level associated with relaxation and light sleep at night, daydreaming during the day. Let's approach it this way.

Let's talk about your brain for just a moment. Your brain functions very much like a computer. Like any other computer, it operates on a small amount of electrical energy.

This electrical energy vibrates or pulsates at different rates during the day. Now, during any 24-hour period, your brain frequency pulsates for maybe 20 times or 20 cycles per second. We call it CPS, abbreviated.

Maybe 20 cycles per second when your eyes are focused and you're functioning at the outer conscious level during the daytime. Now, at night when you go to sleep, your brain frequency slows down. The 20 cycle per second frequency we call beta brainwave frequency.

Those are the second frequencies to be discovered. When the brain slows down to about half of that speed, around 10 cycles per second, in fact, anywhere from 7 to 14 cycles per second, when the brain slows down like that, that's known as the alpha brainwave frequency. Alpha, first letter of the Greek alphabet, because those were the first brain frequencies ever discovered back in the 1920s with the crude sensing equipment, the crude electronic equipment that was available then.

It was just barely sensitive enough to detect the strongest signals, which were at alpha. Now, isn't that interesting? As we're going through the day, doing our work, making our decisions and everything, the brain's functioning at a weak frequency, an unstable frequency, the beta frequency. Yet at night when we fall asleep, the brain's functioning at the stronger alpha frequencies.

Jose Silva thought that was a rather interesting observation. His background was in electronics, radio repair. That was his profession when he began researching on his own to see what he could do to help his children do better in school and do better in life.

He began to think, if that's the strongest frequency, the most rhythmic, the most stable frequency, must be the best circuit, must be because there's a least resistance. Well, he calls it impedance. The least impedance, the fewest impediments to the flow of energy is at the alpha level.

Well, wouldn't it make sense to do our mental work, our thinking, our analyzing, our decision-making at the level where there are the fewest impediments, the lowest impedance, the greatest amount of energy? Maybe that's what makes dreams so valuable. So often we can get information from dreams. Have you ever done that? You ever had a dream about something and a day or so later it happened, a precognitive dream? Have you ever had a dream that had information that helped you make a decision or solve a problem? Many people have.

In fact, the whole field of psychology and psychiatry was built upon a structure of dreams, studying dreams and what those meanings are. They tell us something. Well, you see what happens to super successful people when they need to analyze information, when they need to make a decision, they do their thinking at the alpha level.

They can achieve an alpha level without falling asleep, become mentally active, activate their minds to analyze information, think about things and make decisions. They can do this at the alpha level without going back to beta. But nine out of ten people go back to beta as soon as they start doing their thinking.

They do their thinking at the worst level for doing it and their action at the same level. The super successful people do their thinking at the alpha level, the best level for thinking, and then take action at beta. This is the correct way.

Now there are lower frequencies below seven cycles per second, between four and seven cycles. It's called the `theta region`. This is associated with things like deep hypnosis, where hypnotists can take you for painless dentistry, painless childbirth, things of that sort.

It's also a level where anesthetics and drugs would take you, or if you're knocked unconscious by a blow, that would be the theta level. And below that, below four cycles per second, is what's called the `delta levels`. So that's a quick overview of the brain.

The key to your success, the thing you need to know to be successful, using your mind to be more successful, is to be able to use the alpha level with conscious awareness, to be able to activate your mind to analyze information and solve problems at the alpha level. You have access to more information there, more of the information stored in your own memory banks within your brain, more information that you can get through intuition from other people's brains, or wherever that information happens to be, information from higher intelligence to guide you into your purpose in life and the things that you need to be doing with your life. When you learn to function at the alpha level consciously, what you're doing is converting the so-called subconscious levels into inner conscious levels.

`You can function at the subconscious levels consciously.` This is what Jose Silva considers to be his greatest contribution, the ability to convert the subconscious into an inner conscious level. Once you can do that, you can make changes within yourself.

You can get back in touch with that young person inside who could do so much and had such high hopes and dreams. You can go back to the time before you were contaminated with the negativity that we experience in the world, with the experiences that seem to tell us that we can't accomplish as much as we thought we could. Go back and get in touch with that.

You can go back and literally change the way you function today by making those changes deep within, going back on the scale of brain evolution to the levels where the brain functioned when we were much younger. `A 10-year-old child, the average predominant overall brain frequency is closer to 10 cycles per second.` So at the levels where the information was stored, you can learn to go back and make changes.

Nobody else can do it for you. There's something that you need to do for yourself. That's why we want to learn to enter the alpha level with conscious awareness.

That's what we'll do. In the two mental training exercises, we call them conditioning cycles, we'll get started. Then with a long relaxation exercise, you'll learn how to enter that level with conscious awareness.

Then you will learn to activate your mind and program yourself for success with specific formula-type techniques. You'll become mentally active while remaining at the alpha level. Well, that's kind of an overview of how we start these things.

Now, the main thing is to do it. It's easy enough to talk about stuff, but the main thing is to do it, and I'm sure you're eager to get started. So why don't we do that now? Why don't we get started with a brief mind training exercise? This exercise will only take about five minutes to do, something like that.

Let me explain first what we'll do, and then we'll do that. Then we'll continue and talk about some of the other things that you need to do with your mind to be successful. We'll do a longer exercise, and then we'll move on to what we call the long relaxation exercise, our standard conditioning cycle, so that you can really begin to learn to function at the deep inner levels we're talking about.

Now, first of all, we do our conditioning exercises, our mental training exercises, with eyes closed. Why do we close our eyes? Not to close out the world, but as to shut out distractions. There's so many wonderful things going on in the world.

Let's close our eyes and focus within, rather than to the outside. We'll include a sound in the background, a gentle tapping that we call the alpha sound. It's a tapping about ten times per second.

We'll keep it low so it won't be distracting. That'll be enough to kind of guide your brain to lower to the ten cycle frequency. That and the sound of my voice will help you to concentrate and, again, not be distracted by other things.

Now, for these first two exercises, or the first three exercises, let's do them in a seated position. Find a comfortable chair, but do sit up in a chair. Now, let your body relax any way you want to.

No special position that you need to be in. We'd like to start with this in a seated position for a specific reason. We want you to know that you can do it this way and to relax.

Later, as you continue to practice the long relaxation exercise, make yourself more comfortable if you want to. If you want to kick back in a recliner, that's fine, or stretch out on a sofa, something like that, that's fine. Even in bed is fine, so long as you do not go to sleep.

That's the key to it. You want to relax, but you don't want to go to sleep. Okay? So, make yourself comfortable, and we'll do it that way.

Now, if at any time during any exercise you feel uncomfortable for any reason, move around. Make yourself comfortable. If you need to cough, cough.

If you need to uncross your legs or cross your legs, then go right ahead and do that. As you relax, you may find that another position will be more comfortable. That's the right thing to do.

It certainly doesn't interfere with the process at all. It makes it easier for you to relax and learn to enter the alpha level when you make yourself as comfortable as you need to be. If you want to scratch, scratch.

Do whatever it takes. If you want to open your eyes, if you have an urge to open your eyes, if anything causes you to feel the least bit uncomfortable about having your eyes closed, then by all means open your eyes immediately. Make yourself comfortable.

If you do that, of course, then back the tape up to the beginning of the exercise, and when you're comfortable and when you're ready, start again and go again. And maybe the next time you'll go farther through it. But if you feel uncomfortable, then stop right away.

We will also program this in. `If you're uncomfortable, you can mentally or verbally repeat the word relax.` And this will help your body to relax.

All unnecessary movements and activities of your body, brain, and mind will cease immediately, and you'll become completely passive and relaxed physically and mentally. Only the unnecessary activities, your heart will beat, you'll continue breathing, all those things will work. But the unnecessary things, any tension, you'll get rid of.

Now when we start, we'll simply ask you to close your eyes and relax. Then we will go through some deepening exercises. The first thing you can do to relax is to take a deep breath, and while exhaling, relax your body and go deeper.

That's kind of like a sigh of relief. The next thing we'll do are countdown exercises, counting backwards from 10 to 1, and you'll relax as you do that. The next deepening exercise, we'll say something like this.

To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, relax your eyelids. Feel how relaxed they are. Now make that happen.

You want to get involved. You want to be involved in the process. You want to make it happen for you.

Okay? So you allow the feeling of relaxation to flow slowly downward throughout your body, all the way down to your toes. It could feel like some wave of relaxation just flowing down your body. The more you practice, the easier it'll be to do that.

The next technique we'll have for deepening, we'll say this. To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, I'm going to count from 1 to 3. At that moment, you will project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation. Now this ideal place of relaxation should be someplace where you have been before and been physically passive and relaxed.

Maybe at the beach, maybe out in the woods on a beautiful spring day, maybe at a lake fishing, something like that. You find some place where you have been passive and relaxed. Some people use a bubble bath.

Some people their favorite chair. Whatever it is that helps you to relax. Say, I'll then stop talking to you.

When you next hear my voice, one hour of time will have elapsed at this level of mind. This level of mind. It will seem like it's an hour.

Well, it may not seem like it's an hour, but it will seem like it's several minutes, and it really won't be. It will be a very short time. So we're getting as many benefits as if you had actually relaxed for that length of time.

After that, we will have what we call rapport statements. This is to make sure there's a connection between us that we'll keep. I'll say you'll continue to listen to my voice.

You'll continue to follow the instructions. At this level of the mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level, this is for your benefit. You desire it, and it is so.

This means that the instructions that we give, the positive statements that we have, the programming techniques that we program in at these levels, will be effective for you at all levels. This is what we're talking about. We'll program in that whenever you mention relax, mentally or verbally, tell yourself to relax, you will.

We'll also program in that we come out of level by counting from one to five. We count down to go deeper. We count one to five to come out.

When we do that, we'll do a health clearance to show that your vision, eyesight, and hearing improve, that you'll be feeling terrific. Then we'll have the first of our programming statements to help you know what you're capable of doing, to let your mind know, remind it what it's capable of. Say the difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of their minds and use them in a special manner.

`You are now learning to use more of your mind and to use it in a special manner.` What does that mean? That you are functioning the way a genius does. Then we'll preview the next session and talk about how we'll do a longer exercise and impress and program beneficial statements for your benefit, protective statements for your protection, and preventive statements for your better health.

29 minutes 50 seconds.

Then we'll do the bringout by counting from one to five.
If you want to go ahead and listen to it with your eyes open at beta the first time if
you like, if you feel that that will be beneficial to you, you do whatever it takes for you
to be comfortable and relaxed.
You go through this course at your own pace.
That's an advantage you've got that you don't have in the live training.
You can go through this course at your own pace and do it your own way to make sure that
you are most comfortable that you manage the experience, the way that's best for you.
When you're ready and you've got about five minutes, then let's do this exercise.
If you need to go to the bathroom, go to the bathroom first, you want to drink a water,
get a drink of water.
When you're ready, make yourself comfortable and we'll do our first alpha exercise.


We will begin this exercise by asking you to assume a comfortable sitting position.
Close your eyes, take a deep breath and while exhaling, relax and go deeper.
You are now at a deeper, healthier level of mind, deeper than before.
To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, I'm going to count from ten to one.
From each descending number, you will feel yourself going deeper and you will enter a deeper,
healthier level of mind.
Ten, nine, feel going deeper.
Eight, seven, six, deeper and deeper.
Five, four, three, deeper and deeper.
Two, one.
You are now at a deeper, healthier level of mind, deeper than before.
You may enter a deeper, healthier level of mind by simply relaxing your eyelids.
Relax your eyelids.
Feel how relaxed they are.
Allow this feeling of relaxation to flow slowly down with throughout your body.
Follow the way down to your toes.
It is a wonderful feeling to be deeply relaxed, a very healthy state of being.
To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, I'm going to count from one to three.
At that moment, you will project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation.
Then stop talking to you and when you next hear my voice, one hour of time will have
a lapse at this level of mind.
My voice will not startle you.
He will take a deep breath, relax and go deeper.
One, two, three.
Project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation until you hear my voice again.


33 minutes 30 seconds.

Relax.

Take a deep breath and as you exhale, relax and go deeper.
You will continue to listen to my voice.
You will continue to follow the instructions at this level of mind and any other level,
including the outer conscious level.
This is for your benefit.
You desire it and it is so.
Whenever you mentally or verbally mention the word, relax.
All unnecessary movements and activities of your body, brain and mind will cease immediately
and you will become completely passive and relaxed, physically and mentally.
I may bring you out of this level or a deeper level than this by counting to you from one to five.
At the count of five, your eyes will open.
You will be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health.


The difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of
their minds and use them in a special manner.
You are now learning to use more of your mind and to use it in a special manner.
**In the next longer exercise, we will impress and program beneficial statements for your benefit.
We will impress and program protective statements for your protection.
We will impress and program preventive statements for your better health.**


In a moment, I am going to count from one to five.
At that moment, you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health
feeling better than before.
You will have no ill-effects whatsoever in your head, no headache, no ill-effects whatsoever
in your hearing, no buzzing in your ears, no ill-effects whatsoever in your vision and
eyesight, vision, eyesight and hearing improve every time you function at these levels of
mind.
One, two, coming out slowly now, three.
At the count of five, you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect
health, feeling better than before, feeling the way you feel when you have slept the
right amount of revitalizing, refreshing, relaxing, healthy sleep.
Four, five, eyes open, wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than
before.


There, how did that feel?
Remember that if at any time you feel uncomfortable and desire to relax, open your eyes,
focus, remind yourself to relax, make yourself comfortable, and only when you're comfortable
and ready to do it again, go back and start the exercise over.
Thank you.


