This is the mental screen and the memory pegs conditioning exercise of the silver method.
Now prepare for this mind training exercise by finding a comfortable position.
We will start this exercise with the 3-to-1 method.
In a comfortable position, close your eyes.
Take a deep breath and while exhaling, mental repeat and visualize the number 3, 3 times.
Take another deep breath and while exhaling, mental repeat and visualize the number 2, 3 times.
You are now at level 1, the basic plane level that you are learning to use for a purpose.
Any purpose you desire.
To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, I am going to count from 10 to 1.
On each descending number, you will feel yourself going deeper and you will enter a deeper, healthier level of mind.
10, 9, feel going deeper, 8, 7, 6, deeper and deeper, 5, 4, 3, deeper and deeper, 2, 1.
You are now at a deeper, healthier level of mind, deeper than before.
You may enter a deeper, healthier level of mind by simply relaxing your eyelids, relax your eyelids.
Feel how relaxed they are.
Allow this feeling of relaxation to flow slowly down with throughout your body, all the way down to your toes.
It is a wonderful feeling to be deeply relaxed, a very healthy state of being.
To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, I am going to count from 1 to 3.
At that moment, you will project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation.
I will then stop talking to you and when you next hear my voice, 1 hour of time will have a lapse at this level of mind.
My voice will not startle you. You will take a deep breath, relax and go deeper.
1, 2, 3.
Reject yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation until you hear my voice again.
Relax.
Take a deep breath and as you exhale, relax and go deeper.
You will continue to listen to my voice.
You will continue to follow the instructions at this level of mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level.
This is for your benefit, you desire it and it is so.
Whenever you mentally or verbally mention the word, relax.
All unnecessary movements and activities of your body, brain and mind will cease immediately and you will become completely passive and relaxed physically and mentally.
I may bring you out of this level or deeper level than this by counting to you from 1 to 5.
At the count of 5, your eyes will open, you will be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health.
The difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of their minds and use them in a special manner.
You are now learning to use more of your mind and to use it in a special manner.
The following are beneficial statements that you may occasionally repeat while at these levels of the mind, repeat mentally after me.
My increasing mental faculties are for serving humanity better.
Every day, in every way, I am getting better, better and better.
Positive thoughts bring me benefits and advantages. I desire.
I have full control and complete dominion over my sensing faculties, at this level of the mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level.
And this is so.
The following statements are for your protection. This is mind control, your own self-mind control. You are always in control.
You may accept or reject anything I say, anytime, at any level of the mind. You are always in control.
The following preventive statements are for your better health. Keep in mind that from now on I will occasionally be speaking in your place.
I will never learn to develop physically or mentally, mental disorders, nor psychosomatic or functional ailments or diseases.
I will never learn to develop physically or mentally, a dependence on drugs or alcohol.
Negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me, at any level of the mind.
I will always maintain a perfectly healthy body and mind.
Mental projection statements for success. I am now learning to attune my intelligence by developing my sensing faculties and to project them to any problem area, so as to become aware of any abnormalities, if this is necessary and beneficial for humanity.
I am now learning to apply corrective measures and to correct any abnormality I detect.
Negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me, at any level of the mind.
We will now impress new information for your benefit, programming the mental screen. To locate your mental screen, begin with your eyes closed, turn slightly upward from the horizontal plane of sight, at an angle of approximately 20 degrees.
The area that you perceive with your mind is your mental screen.
Without using your eyelids as screens, send your mental screen to be out away from your body.
To improve the use of your mental screen, project images or mental pictures onto the screen, especially images having color.
Concentrate on mentally sensing and visualizing true color.
We will now impress and program for your benefit several memory pegs to be used for the improvement of visualization, imagination, clairvoyance and memory.
The practice of projecting the mental pictures of the memory pegs on your mental screen will help you to develop the faculty of visualization and imagination leading to superior clairvoyance.
We will now program ten of the standard most used basic memory pegs.
Number one, the letter T, the peg word T, project a strong picture of a glass of T on your mental screen.
Number two, the letter N, the peg word NOAA, project a picture of a man with a long white beard on your mental screen.
Number three, the letter M, the peg word MA, project a picture of a calendar on your screen.
Number four, the letter R, the word RA, mental picture sun rays.
Number five, the letter L, the word L, mental picture, a policeman.
Number six, the letter J, the word J, mental picture, a man with a large jaw.
Number seven, the letter K, the word K, mental picture, a large gold key.
Number eight, the letter F, the word F, mental picture, a price tag of eight million dollars.
Number nine, the letter B, the word B, mental picture, land and water.
Number ten, the letters T and S, the word Toes, mental picture, ten Toes.
We will now impress the ten objects to be remembered.
peg number one is T, project a vivid image of the glass of T on your mental screen.
The object to be remembered is a book.
The associate object number one, the book, with T in some strange or humorous or attractive way that gets your attention.
peg number two is Noah, project a vivid image.
Object number two is a car, associate the car with Noah.
peg number three is May, the calendar month of May.
The object to remember is a vacation.
Make an association and remember to exaggerate size, quantity, amount number, colors, action.
Make it memorable.
peg number four is Ray, the object to remember is money.
peg number five is law, the law man, the policeman, the object is the house.
So associate the object the house with the peg, the law man, some strange, humorous, interesting, memorable way.
peg number six is Jaw, man with a large jaw.
The object to remember is a television set.
peg number seven is a key, a large gold key.
The object is a motorcycle.
Make it memorable, make it funny, make it silly.
peg number eight is V, and the object cowboy boots.
peg number nine is Bay, land and water.
Object the diamond ring.
peg number ten is Toes, the object to remember is a computer.
You have now impressed and programmed memory pegs for your benefit.
You may use them for the improvement of visualization, imagination, clairvoyance and memory.
In your next session we will program the three fingers technique and three applications you can use.
For easier recall of information read, for easier recall of information heard, and for achieving higher grades and test taking.
Every time you function at these levels of the mind you will receive beneficial effects physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help yourself physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help your loved ones physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help any human being who needs help physically and mentally.
You will never use these levels of the mind to harm any human being.
If this be your intention you will not be able to function within these levels of the mind.
You will always use these levels of the mind in a constructive creative manner for all that is good, honest, pure, clean and positive.
And this is so.
You will continue to strive to take part in constructive and creative activities to make this a better world to live in,
so that when we move on we shall have left behind a better world for those who follow.
You will consider the whole of humanity depending on their ages, as fathers or mothers, brothers or sisters, sons or daughters.
You are a superior human being.
You have greater understanding, compassion, and patience with others.
In a moment I am going to count from one to five.
In a moment you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before.
You will have no ill effects whatsoever in your head, no headache, no ill effects whatsoever in your hearing, no buzzing in your ears, no ill effects whatsoever in your vision and eyesight.
Vision, eyesight, and hearing improve every time you function at these levels of mind.
One, two, coming out slowly now.
Three, at the count of five you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before.
Feeling the way you feel when you have slept the right amount of revitalizing, refreshing, relaxing, healthy, wonderful sleep.
Four, five, eyes open, wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before.
This concludes the mental screen and memory pack exercise for the Selva method.
Thank you.
