The mirror of the mind is one of the most used techniques in the silver method. It's used
for correcting problems and for reaching your goals. The mirror of the mind uses visualization
and imagination. It's very simple to use. Let me tell you how it works and then we'll
talk about some of the ways that you can use it to help you choose success and experience
more success in your life. To use the mirror of the mind, here's what you do. Create and project
on your mental screen a full-length mirror. This mirror will be known as the mirror of
the mind. This mirror of the mind can be mentally increased in size to encompass within
its frame a thing or things, a person or persons, a small scene or a large scene. The color
of the frame of the mirror of the mind can be mentally changed from blue to white. The blue
frame will denote the problem or the existing situation which can be converted into a project.
The white frame will denote the solution. To solve a problem with the mirror of the mind, enter
level 1 with a 3-to-1 method. Then project the image of the mirror of the mind with blue
frame on your mental screen. Create an image of the problem, thing, person or scene and project
it on your blue framed mirror of the mind in order to make a good study of the problem.
After making a good study of the problem, erase the problem image, move the mirror to
your left, change the mirror's frame to white, and create and project a solution image
onto the white framed mirror. From then on, anytime you happen to think of the project,
visualize the solution image that you have created, framed in white, and this is so.
After we program that in the next conditioning cycle, I will then allow you time to work on one
problem case using the mirror of the mind. Now, what can you use the mirror of the mind for?
You can use it for anything when you know what the problem is and you know the solution.
You need to know the problem and the solution. This is not a technique for gathering information.
This is a programming technique for correcting a problem. You can use Dream Control Step 3
for obtaining information. You can enter the alpha level and analyze information and come up
with creative ideas for solving your problem. Once you know what the solution is, once you have
a solution in mind, then you can use the mirror of the mind to program to achieve that solution.
There's some examples here, for instance. If you have a health problem, visualize it in the blue
frame mirror. Then in the white frame mirror, imagine yourself in perfect health. You can recall a
time when you were in perfect health and imagine that you're in perfect health again.
From then on, whenever you happen to think of your health condition, recall the solution image
that you have created, framed in white. That is, whenever you think about the health problem,
that's the problem. That's the blue frame image. You do not want to add energy to that. So,
immediately we call the solution image perfect health, framed in white. We do not go back to the
blue frame image after the first programming session. Concentrate on the solution, the white
framed image. Suppose there's something you must learn. We learned in the previous session about
learning and test taking. You can use the mirror of the mind to help you there too. If you have
something you need to learn or test you must take a new skill you need to develop. Then in the
blue frame mirror, visualize yourself with the problem, the existing situation. The problem is
learning it, right? So, visualize yourself studying to learn it. That's the problem. In the white
frame mirror, imagine the test with a perfect score. Or imagine yourself performing the new task
correctly, the final end result. It's a little bit tricky sometimes to think about, but learning it
is the problem, not the solution. The solution is knowing it. So, in the blue frame mirror,
learning it, the white frame mirror, you know it. Suppose that you're having family problems. It
happens even in the best of families. Problems with your spouse, problems with your children,
problems with your parents. Mentally picture the problem in the blue frame mirror. Now, we're not
talking about the person, say, my problem is that person. Now, the problem deals with relationship
and what you're trying to work out when you're in a family situation. So, picture the problem,
the situation, and the blue frame mirror, and make a good study of it. Very often, when you make
a good study of it, you gain so much understanding, especially at the alpha level, that you're already
halfway home. Then, in the white frame mirror, imagine everything going smoothly, everything
working out. From then on, whenever you think of that situation, we'll call it a project. It's no
longer a problem because now you have a way to deal with it. So, it's a project that you're working
on. When you do that, visualize, recall, the solution image that you've created, frame been white,
and expect the situation to go the way that you desire. For instance, let's say that your daughter
is used to having things given to her. She's used to you providing and you're having trouble
getting across the idea that she needs to accept responsibility. Maybe that's the problem.
So, you come up with a strategy to use and a way to work it. That's what you'd put in the white
frame mirror, talking with her, helping her to make the connection between her responsibility
and what she acquires in her life. Then, expect it to happen and go out and program it.
Whenever you think of it, whenever you think of your daughter and what's happening,
immediately think of the solution image, what you're saying, how you're working with her,
and how she's accepting that and doing it well. If you want a promotion and the blue frame mirror,
visualize yourself in your present position and the white frame mirror, create a mental picture
of yourself in your new job. If you're having trouble paying your bills, then that's what you
visualize in the blue frame mirror. In the white frame mirror, imagine all the bills paid,
everything's current. Now, I noticed that I didn't say to imagine yourself getting the money.
That's a process that's a way of getting things taken care of that could also limit your options.
There may be some special benefits that come along that can get things caught up,
can make things happen without you're having to get money in your hand to do it with. You don't
want to limit your options. So, do take a little time at your level to think what is the final end
result that I really want and program straight for that desired end result. In that case,
that's the bill's being paid. It's kind of like the story about the Gordia not. Remember the small
town of Gordia back in ancient times and a young man named Alexander the Great, he called himself
Alexander the Great. He wanted to rule the world. They thought he was great enough to do it.
He got to Gordia and they said, well, no one rules us. We do not need government. We are intelligent
people. We're kind people. We care about each other. We get along without needing to be governed.
However, we do realize that perhaps there is someone wise enough that we would want them to
govern us. So, we've devised a test. There's this chariot tied at the gates of the city.
And the rope that ties it is in is huge, not. Great big thing. It's so tangled up that nobody could
even find the ends of it to begin to get an untangled. The test was, whoever can untangle that,
who can free the chariot and ride it down the streets of the city, that person can be our ruler.
So, Alexander the Great looked over the problem. He says, all I need to do is to
loose the chariot, ride it down the streets of the city, and you also come to my rule. And they
said, yes, that's it. So, he whipped out his sword and sliced through the knot.
Some people might think that's cheating, but he did what he was required to do. He loose the chariot,
he rode it down the streets of the city, and went on to rule the city. Well, that's kind of like
the mirror of the mind. We don't need to worry about all the details, no matter how tangled up the
problem is, no matter how complex it may be, we can cut through and go straight to the solution,
leave it up to your mind to work out the details. Your mind will help you work out the details.
Oh, and the objective world and the beta world, you still keep looking for things, you keep trying
things, and alpha, you keep looking for ideas. But with mirror the mind, you're not concerned with
all of that. You go straight to the solution, and however it comes about, it's okay with you.
Assuming it doesn't harm anyone else, and we're assuming that it doesn't.
Well, you get the idea of what kind of projects you can work on, and how to do them.
Now, how do you know your programming is working? That's always one of the big questions.
Get a lot of calls here at the office from graduates, who say, I've been programming something
with mirror the mind for six months and nothing's happened. Well, I say, why do you keep programming
then? Let's do something. Let's make something happen. This is not a passive course. This is one
where you make something happen. When you program, program in a manner that you can expect to see
something take place within the next two or three days. Mr. Silva says 72 hours is a good time to
look for. Something should happen. You program for a job. Within that 72 hours, something should
happen. You should suddenly get a lead on a possibility for a job. Maybe you get an interview.
Maybe you get turned down. That's okay. Something happened in the right direction.
That's what you're looking for. That lets you know that you're moving in the right direction.
If nothing happens and you continue to program for a few times and nothing is happening,
maybe you need to change something. Analyze a situation at your level. Make any kind of adjustments
that seem appropriate. Now, you don't want to give up on your programming too soon, but if you're
not getting the results that you want, then you want to alter your approach in some manner.
And you want to see if that produces results for you. Always let your results guide you
in your programming. Now, you might be wondering why we instruct you to move the mirror to the left.
Mr. Silva found during his age regression research when he would regress children to the past and
then progress them back to the present that they were detecting the images of the past towards
their right and the images of the future to their left. So, he incorporated that into the programming.
Now, you notice in the Silva method, we do not just program for something that we want. We don't
just pick something and say, that's it. We program to solve a problem, to correct a problem.
That's done throughout the course. Remember how we do it? In the headache control technique,
I have a headache. I feel a headache. I want to be wide awake feeling fine and imperfect
help the problem, the solution. In the awake control, for staying awake longer, I am drowsy and
sleepy. I want to be wide awake. Well, with the mirror of the mind, we have two ways to indicate that
we're moving from a problem, or the existing situation, towards a solution that will follow.
For instance, we move the mirror from its position in front of you, towards your left.
That's consistent with what Mr. Silva found in his research.
We also change the color of the frame of the mirror from blue to white. Mr. Silva says,
when people are hurting, they're often black and blue if they get beat up. They're blue when
they have a problem. When they're worried and depressed, we say that they have the blues. They sing
the blues. So, we'll take the blues away and shine a lot of bright white light on our solution.
We want to make the solution so bright that it stays in our consciousness all the time,
until it manifests in the object of dimension in physics.
Mr. Silva envisions using the mirror of the mind to correct problems.
That can include all kinds of problems. Let's look at a couple of examples. Perhaps you're in a
dead-end job, or you don't have a job, you're unemployed. That's a problem. Maybe you love to
play golf, but when you play in the club tournament, you seem to make more bad shots than normal. That's
a problem. Maybe you like the confidence to stand up for your rights or for your ideas,
and you let people take advantage of you. That's a problem.
Suppose you want a promotion or a new job. You can program yourself with the mirror of the
mind to learn whatever you must learn and develop the necessary qualifications to help you get the job.
So, you can program first in a blue frame mirror, you're in the bad job or you're out of a job
in a white frame mirror, you have the job. You can also program yourself in the blue frame mirror,
not to have the skills to be studying to learn the skills that you need for the new job you
desire, and in the white frame mirror, getting the job. There's so many ways that you can use the
mirror of the mind. Always look for results within the next three days. Something is improving and
getting better. Suppose you've decided it's time to go out and win that trophy in the golf tournament.
You can program for that with the mirror of the mind. In the blue frame mirror, you will visualize
the problem, the disappointment that you had in the last tournament because you missed those shots
that you'd normally make and you didn't get the trophy. Then, in the white frame mirror,
what image do you put there? You're self-getting the trophy, making the shots and getting the trophy.
That's what you look for. Then, when you go out and play in your next tournament, you should do
better. That'll be your test for it. Perhaps you'll win. Even if you don't win, if you do better and
you get closer, then you know you're heading in the right direction, that you're moving in the
right direction. Continue the program in the same manner and you will reach your goal.
Now, if you do worse in the next tournament or if there's no change, then enter your level and
analyze the situation. Perhaps you need to alter your goal or you might need to alter your
programming in some manner. Program more, program less, if you need to work on your desire,
whatever it may be. Perhaps you need to practice entering deep levels more often. Perhaps you
haven't practiced enough to establish deep levels. Perhaps you're going to level but just
fooling yourself because you're daydreaming and thinking about other stuff and you're not staying
at your level. Check with your local lecturer. Have your lecturer help you to troubleshoot? Go
back and recall other successes that you've had in programming and at your level determine what
might be different about the times you've succeeded compared to this project. The idea is to try
something different and notice how it works. Try anything that comes to mind and notice how it
works. When you get good results and you're moving in the direction of your goal, then continue
doing what you're doing. Always let your results guide you. If you want to become more assertive,
if that's a problem for you, then first visualize yourself in a blue frame mirror backing down,
not standing up for your rights or your beliefs. Then in the white frame mirror,
imagine yourself being assertive, standing up for your rights or your beliefs and imagine people
responding positively to you. Again, let your results guide you. If you're not satisfied with
the progress you're making, then try something different. When you're satisfied with your project,
with your progress, continue on. This was something that I had to do. I had to learn how to become
more assertive. I was very insecure and very laid back. When I realized finally that that was
a problem for me, I went out and purchased a book on assertiveness training. I found out that
being assertive is not the same as being aggressive. I didn't know that. I learned a great deal
about it. I wanted to apply it and put it to work immediately. I wanted to find a situation
where it would be easy to do. You know what I did? I went out to the flea market. The flea market,
they're perfectly willing to bargain with you. But you've got to go out there and you've got to
be assertive. You've got to stand up for what you want. So I went out and determined that I was
not going to pay the asking price for anything that I bought. This was a real change for me.
I did it. I stood my ground and it worked. I continued to do that for quite a few years as I
continued to develop my confidence, my ability to stand up for what I believe in, to let people know
how great this course is. That was something I wanted to do very much. I had a tremendous desire
for it and a lot of motivation and I could monitor my progress very easily by doing that.
Always remember now that after you program a project for the first time,
then in the future, whenever you happen to think of the project, it's no longer a problem
remember it's a project. Whenever you think of it while programming while working while driving
any time at all, visualize the solution image that you have created framed in white.
You do not want to add energy to the problem. So you do not go back to the blue frame mirror.
When you think of your situation, immediately, immediately visualize the solution image that you've
created framed in white. It's also very good to get your feelings involved. Even while visual
communication is the main thing, it's very important to get your feelings involved.
You can add a lot of power to your programming by getting your feelings involved. It's a good way
to increase your desire and the more desire you have, the greater your chances of success.
For instance, imagine how you feel in your new job. Imagine your satisfaction at the opportunity
to be of more service and to help more people to provide better for your family. Will you feel
proud? Get your feelings involved in it. How will you feel when the trophy is presented to you
for winning the golf tournament? Imagine all the people watching you as you are recognized for
your accomplishment. How would that feel? Notice that you can really use your imagination and your
visualization to help you out with this. As you imagine being there, imagine all the people
imagine the trophy. Where are you going to put the trophy? Who's going to be seeing it?
Get your feelings involved. Get some detail in there. How will you feel when you stand up for
yourself and people accept your ideas when people do right by you? What about that feeling of
confidence that you get? Will it be a feeling of satisfaction? What will that be? Get your feelings
involved. Whenever you have a success, then at your earliest opportunity, enter your level and
review the success. Especially recall the feeling of success. The feeling you got when you were
successful. There's a special feeling that comes with success that you cannot get any other way.
Review that success and review that feeling of success. Establish points of reference.
So when you're programming for new projects, you'll be able to recall the special feeling of success.
This will help your mind to adjust to the same level again so that you'll be just as successful
in your new project and even more successful. That's important to remember what we talked about
at the beginning of this course. That we're not here just for ourselves. We're here to help
correct problems. The more people who benefit, the stronger our desire will be. How's
they so if it has its own way of expressing this at unique way that he can do that nobody else
can really duplicate. So why don't we do this? Come along with me here and let's slip into an
instructor training session where Mr. Silva is speaking to instructors and revealing to them
the real power behind the programming with the silver method techniques. Let's listen now now to him.
You're turning on a good question to talk on.
He tested for a rose voice. He was in the possibility areas. But you see we were not we're not sent.
We're not going to get help from the other side where we want something like this only for me.
But if I say I want a vehicle where we can then we can use we several, not just me.
Because I say need for something like this. And it's within the possibility areas. And I don't have the
means. I mean then get the other side to help me. Now the other side can only help me when I'm
asking for something that's needed to improve conditions on planet Earth. Like we said, not
they're going to help me if I want to know the median dollars when I'm really having the dollars.
Then I want another rose voice when I have a rose voice already. Then I want a good friend
who I already have my wife. Some people ask for something like this and I'm going to help you.
You're on your own. I mean if you're making mistakes you're going to suffer for it. You're on your own.
You don't get help from the other side. You don't get help from the other side when you're
intentions are that whatever you're doing is to help improve conditions dependent for more than
yourself, not just yourself. You have to see me, me. You have to go on your own. Us, then you get help.
If whatever you do is going to help more than you, the more you're going to help, the more help you
get for it. And we always say don't ever ask for more than what you need. But do ask for
no less than what you need. Okay? And so the best of how big your plans are is what you need
to be there. On the final tape, you can hear even more of what Mr. Silva had to say on this topic
and many other topics as well. He'll answer some of the questions that you probably have about
applying the techniques based on his research and his experience for half a century now.
Now let's talk about what else you can do with the mirror of the mind. There's a lot more than what
we've done so far. You can use it to eliminate fear, guilt and doubt, irrational fear, guilt about
mistakes you may have made, and doubt about your abilities and your value as a human being.
You know, fear serves a purpose when it keeps us out of trouble and keeps us from being hurt.
That sometimes is very necessary. However, irrational fear serves no purpose for it.
And, for instance, the fear of public speaking, one might say, is an irrational fear.
What's going to happen? We may embarrass ourselves. That's not a threat to life.
Something that might be very beneficial to us to learn to speak in public. Some people have
other fears. Some people are afraid to go out in public. Some people are afraid to fly on
airplane. Some people are afraid to use elevators. These irrational fears limit us and hold us back.
They limit the choices that we have when it comes to choosing success. So it can be good to work
on those fears and deal with them. They could be any number of reasons why we develop those fears.
Perhaps something happened at frighten you when you were a child. You're making strong
impressions on the brain when you're a child when you're very young. So if something frightens you
at that point, everything that happened, everything about the environment, is impressed on your brain
cells. Maybe you saw a scary movie. That could be a thing, right? A lot of kids will have to go see
scary movies. Maybe you saw a scary movie and you came home and you were frightened and you
crawled into bed and you got under the covers. But your head under the covers to be safe.
And maybe the phone rang while you were scared and you associated the phone ringing with being
scared. Now, maybe today you're reluctant to use the telephone. You don't like using the phone to
call people to do business to accomplish things. It can be accomplished on the phone. And this may
limit your choices in becoming successful. Remember, we want to be able to be free to choose
success, to choose whatever we want to do. Why have something in our experience and in our
existence that limits us and makes it more difficult for us to choose success?
Now, that happened so long ago and there may have been a number of other things that intervened
in between. It may be a great big tangled knot like that Gordian knot that we don't know how to
unravel. Psychologists and psychiatrists may spend years trying to help us unravel some of
those problems. But your mind knows what's going on. Your mind can do it very quickly.
To deal with irrational fears is really very simple with mirror the mind. You enter your level with
a three to one method. Take the fear that is the least troubling to you, the smallest of all
the fears that you have. Take that fear, rework it with the mirror of the mind. In the blue frame mirror,
visualize yourself being afraid. In the white frame mirror, imagine yourself doing it confidently.
That's how I learned to speak in public to present the self a method to become a lecturer.
I was so nervous about getting up into anything. I imagined myself doing it over and over again
until it became easy for me. Work on the easiest fear, the one that's the least troubling to you,
and then work your way up. Pretty soon you'll probably find that the whole network simply falls
apart and you're no longer fearful about anything, except things you should be fearful of. If you
step off a curb and you hear an air horn blow from a truck, then be afraid. Jump back up on the
sidewalk again. Don't take a chance of getting run over. That's a rational fear. But irrational fears,
there's no need to allow those to limit us and to limit our options. A great many people
have overcome irrational fears. As a story in the sales power book that we have about a newspaper
reporter, the bureau chief in Melbourne, Florida, for the Orlando Sentinel, he was kind enough to
allow us to reprint a column, talking about his fear of flying that he'd had for so long. He
overcame that fear of flying and is confident now. It's a matter of facing up to it, acknowledging
it and reprogramming it at your level, let your mind do what's necessary to correct the cause
of the problem. And then you won't be fearful. You will be confident.
Guilt? Well, with all due respect to some religions who use guilt on us all the time, so I'm
saying that we were born in sin and we were born guilty, Mr. Silva has a different way of looking at
it. He looks at it this way. What survival value does it have? He always likes to evaluate things
on that basis. What survival value? How does it enhance our chances for survival? Does feeling
guilty do that? Guilt may serve a purpose, it may serve several purposes. For instance, you did
something in the past, you hurt someone, you feel bad about it, you have guilt feelings, you wish
you hadn't done it. Ask yourself these questions. First of all, have I done whatever I can to make
restitution? If not, and there's a possibility of doing that, then go out and make restitution,
do something about it, whatever you can to make it up to the person. Sometimes that's not
possible. You don't know where they are, perhaps they've passed on. If you can't do anything to make
restitution, okay, no point feeling guilty about that. It has no survival value and it doesn't help you.
Next question, have I learned anything from the mistake that I made? Yes, it was a mistake.
Have I learned from it? Go to your level and analyze these things and see. Have I learned a lesson?
Do I understand what I did wrong? Do I know how to be a better human being in the future?
If you've learned your lesson from it, then you don't need to hold on to guilt for that reason.
The guilt has served its purpose. The third thing you would ask yourself, have I made a
commitment? Have I taken steps to ensure that I will not make that same mistake again? I will not
repeat that mistake. Now, if you've taken care of all three of those issues, then what other value
would it have to hold on to the guilt? It can be very detrimental. It can have some negative
effects. That's for sure. Because if you feel guilty, that means you don't like yourself.
You don't trust yourself. You don't trust your judgment and what you're doing. If you have these
guilt feelings bottled up inside of you, how does that help you to be successful? We're not saying
to never feel bad about it, but once you've worked it out, once you have dealt with the guilt,
then at that point it's time to let it go, to release it, and to move on, and to do good things
in your life, to do positive things in your life. How does guilt feelings help anybody
if it prevents you from achieving the greatness that you know you're capable of achieving?
Whatever that may be, there's so much that you can accomplish. Why allow something to hold
you back unnecessarily when it's not doing any good to do so? If you've done what you can to make
amends, if you've learned your lesson, and if you've made the commitments and taken steps to
ensure that you won't make that mistake again, then it's time to get on with your life.
Once again, use mirror the mind. Go to your level. At your level in a blue frame mirror,
replay it one more time. You've probably done it a lot of times before. Do it in a blue frame
mirror with this technique at the alpha level. Have made the mistakes. Analyze the problem.
Learn your lessons. Do what you need to do. Then when you are ready to let it go,
then erase that image. Change the frame to white. Move the mirror to the left. Change the frame
to white. And in the white frame mirror, replay it, but this time the way you wished it would have
happened. What was it you wished you would have done instead? What is it you know now that would
allow you to respond differently so that you would not do the thing that caused the harm?
Correct it at that level. Replay that image in the white frame mirror as often as you need to,
as much as you need to, until you have established a new image and you've released the feelings of
guilt. In all likelihood, most of the time we find it, people feel guilty over things that the
victim has long since forgotten about. They got angry about it. They did whatever. It may have
cost you a friendship or whatever. They've forgotten about it a lot of times, not always. It's not
always the case. But many times, and certainly where you are concerned, the reality that it has for
you is the reality that you have in your memory banks. Change that reality in your memory banks,
alter it, and you let go of the guilt so that then you can get on with your life,
can accomplish what you need to accomplish. You know, it's pretty interesting when you deal with
fear in this matter, when you deal with guilt in this matter. The doubt about your ability, the doubt
about yourself, seems to go away pretty much on its own. It's been said that we need to be able
to love and respect ourselves before we can love and respect others. That's the essence of all
religions when you come right down to it. Do unto others, Mr. Silva says it this way,
do unto others only what you want them to do to you. Love thy God with all thy heart and soul
in mind and love thy neighbor as thyself. Look into any religions you want to and you'll find
similar sentiments. The Creator wants us to be constructive and creative and do constructive
and creative things, wants us to help with the creation, not to hurt the creation, not to hurt the
creatures that the Creator put here, but to help them. How can you love your God whom you can't see?
If you cannot love and respect your neighbor, the Creator's highest creation, whom you can see.
How do people think they can be close to the Creator by being destroyers? The Creator's not a
destroyer. The Creator is a Creator. If you want to be close to God, to be close to the Creator,
then participate and take part in constructive and creative activities. It is such a tragedy that
most of the wars on this planet so often are fought on a religious basis. A majority of the wars
going on right now are religious wars. People destroying the highest creation of the Creator
in the name of the Creator. How does that make sense? How does that possibly make sense?
I get a little passionate about that. I apologize for that, but I feel so strongly about that.
This is what we need to do, and it all begins with not beaten up on ourselves either,
but learning to accept ourselves. We've all made mistakes. We have all done things we wish we hadn't
have done every single one of us. That's part of life and it's part of learning. It's one of the
ways that we learn. It's unfortunate that we have to do it that way. It's much better to learn
from other people's mistakes, isn't it? I hope you'll do that and learn from some of my mistakes
with what we're covering in the coursework here. So work on yourself with the idea in mind that
this will help to make the world a better place to live. Program it, deep, deep levels,
to overcome fears, overcome guilt, and overcome doubt. That'll go by itself. Then you're free to
choose success. You're free to fulfill your mission in life. You know, if you don't do this,
you might even pass your problems on to others, you know, your own children, and lower their
chances of success. That sort of thing has happened. It happened to one silver method graduate who's
a very good friend of mine. I'll call him Lee. I won't use his real name. I'll call him Lee.
Lee would always achieve a certain amount of success, but eventually he wind up stalled at some
point. He might make a mistake or he might be unable to learn something and he was required to learn
or he would offend the wrong person or he just simply wouldn't have the confidence to go out and
do what everybody knew that he was capable of doing, including himself. It was very frustrating
for Lee. He used to talk about the frustration of why couldn't he achieve more.
After Lee learned the silver method techniques, he began to use the mirror of the mind.
He went back to his childhood and he changed a lot of things mentally. He recalled being criticized
by his parents sometimes very severely and unfairly as far as he was concerned. So he reviewed
what happened. He reviewed the criticism. He relived that in the blue frame mirror.
And then in the white frame mirror, you know what he did? He rewrote the script. He wrote his
own script for this show. In the white frame mirror, he imagined his parents helping him,
explaining things to him, helping him to understand, helping him develop coping strategies that he
could use instead of simply criticizing him. He worked on his fears the same way, such as the
apprehension he often felt when he was with other people. Said it wasn't that he didn't like
people. It was that he feared people. So he worked on that with mirror of the mind.
He used the mirror of the mind to rewrite situations that he felt guilty about.
He had made a lot of mistakes. His parents had told him he'd made an awful lot.
He felt he hadn't made as many as they thought he had. But the ones that he did feel guilty about,
he went back and changed them. Often when he was at very deep levels, he gained insight and
understanding about what had happened and why. And that helped ease the guilt and to deal with
some of the fears that he had and to relieve some of the doubts.
One night, while he was at a very, very deep level, thinking about a very good friend, a close
friend of his, whose mother had died. His friend's mother had died when his friend was very young.
At least suddenly realized that there was a similarity between his friend's experiences and his
own mother's experience. Lee's mother was orphaned at a young age when her mother died of pneumonia.
Her father traveled most of the time, so she grew up in a boarding house with people who
are not even her relatives. Lee realized at deep levels that this must have left his mother feeling
abandoned by both parents. And as a result, she must have felt unwanted, unworthy, unloved,
and unlovable. This is the same situation that Lee's close friend was in. When thinking about his
friend and how he felt, he realized that his mother, that Lee's mother, must have felt the same
way. Feeling this way, she must have doubted that anyone worthwhile would ever love her.
She felt so unloved if your own parents don't love you. If you feel that your own parents
abandoned you and don't love you, and this happens to people who are orphaned or whose parents
are divorced, this happens so often, then how can you feel that anyone else can ever love you
and accept you? Your own parents, it's automatic. So if you feel that they don't, it's got to be
awfully tough. She felt undoubtedly that even her own husband couldn't really love her.
Well, she had such a low opinion of herself. How could she ever think anymore of her own children?
If she felt that her parents didn't love her, she believed her husband didn't love her,
then how could she feel that her own children were any more worthy than she was herself? They came
from her. So she must have felt that they too were unworthy. No wonder she criticized her children
so much. No wonder she criticized Lee so much and often unfairly. She had a distorted picture and
a distorted perspective because she couldn't respect herself because she felt unloved and unlovable
and unwanted and unworthy. She was very hard on her children to stay in full of their efforts to do
things. It was a bad situation. Well, when Lee understood this, it was a tremendous revelation to
him. He said that helped me to realize that I was not the one who was at fault. I was not a bad
person. I was just a little kid, being a kid. This little kid had a right to be loved, to be
nurtured, to be guided by his parents. She was the one who felt unloved and unworthy. It was her
problem, Lee said. It was her problem, not mine. Lee said that the next day he felt absolutely
wonderful. There's still a great burden has been lifted off his back. He reported that he
felt more relaxed. He felt better about himself and that people are definitely responding differently
to him now than they did before. Now he goes into social situations and instead of being frightened
and timid and nervous and always seeming to say the wrong thing and turn people off no matter what
he said, said so often. He would say the same things that other people would say. And yet
those in the group would not respond to him the way they did to others. Now he goes in. He says
tell a little joke or make a funny remark and people laugh. People seem to enjoy being around
him. The only thing that's changed is Lee has realized that his mother did not fail to love him
because of him but because of her problems, that he deserved love, that he is lovable and that
people do. In fact, love him. When he recognized this, he began to love himself. He began to
get rid of those doubts that he had about himself and something within himself expressed itself
came out from within him in some manner that has really changed his relationships and things with
people. Now instead of offending people, he makes them feel good and they want to be around him.
For the first time in his life, Lee feels as though he's accepted by other people that his opinions
are worth listening to and people are actually listening to him. This happened very rarely before
he said. This actually was the second breakthrough that Lee had experienced. Other people have had
breakthroughs too and analyzing the experiences, there seem to be three factors in common.
For whatever this may be worth to you, perhaps it will help you to find some ways through
improve your life as well. Three factors. Lee was at very, very deep levels when he did this.
Go back and review the first two tapes, especially the second tape with the long relax about getting
to very deep levels. Lee had had some good instruction about how to get to very deep levels,
so he was at a very deep level. The second thing was thinking about someone else, a dear friend of
his and their situation he was analyzing that and he was trying to figure out some way to help them.
Deep levels, thinking of someone else and desiring to help them. Suddenly he realized that his
efforts could also be applied to him and his situation. He announced something, this is exactly
the way that Jose Silva teaches us to correct problems. First, enter the alpha level, establish
a deep level. Go way below ten cycles so that you make sure you're staying at alpha no matter
what the thoughts are. Establish a deep level and learn how to stay there and function there.
Second, do your thinking at alpha analyze the problems there. There's more information
available to you at alpha than there is at beta and when you have enough information it's
easy to correct problems. The third factor, Mr. Silva has always taught that when you have a
problem to work on, if you have a problem that you want to solve for yourself, go out and find
five other people with the same problem and program for them. If you want to imagine yourself
being confident, then find five other people who also want to be more confident and program for
them to be confident. In the white frame mirror, picture them functioning in a confident manner.
That image will also help you to be more confident. Now, think about it for just a minute. You can
program yourself to be confident, but if you haven't been confident before, no matter how much
you do that at level, you're still kind of wondering, is it really going to work? You know,
you may say to yourself, oh, I know it will, but deep within that wounded child within
way inside is their belief really and truly there. Maybe, maybe not.
But you know, other people can look at us and believe that we should be confident that we have
everything we need to be confident. It's easier for them to believe it than for us to believe it
for ourselves, usually, isn't it? Well, it works the other way too. It's usually easier for you to
believe that someone else can be confident, that someone else can accomplish the great things,
then to believe that you can to really believe it deep within, especially when you're actually
out there in action involved with other people. That's when it's the hardest. You can program,
you can use three fingers technique to help you mirror the mind, all the techniques, mental
rehearsal will learn a little bit later, so many things you can do. But you know something,
it's really easy when you're programming for somebody else. You know they've got it within
them. You know they can do it. It's easy to have the feeling of confidence when you're programming
for them. So if you program for five people, picturing them being confident, responding
confidently and feeling confident, what are you putting in your own memory banks? What impression
are you making on your own brain cells? Confidence, the feeling of confidence, all that's going in
there. Even if it's for somebody else, it's still on your brain cells. You have the original,
they only get the copy. You can program for them a lot, but you've got the original. You go out
and help them, and you'll be helping yourself more than you'll be helping those five people.
Mr. Silva has always taught that. It really seems to make a difference. When we're doing that,
remember what he was just talking about? When we're doing something for more than just ourselves,
that's when we get help from the other side, from higher intelligence.
When you do this, when you program in this manner at very deep levels, then the so-called
wounded child within you will get the healing that's needed if you have that situation.
Now, evidently, that's what happened in leaves case. Well, now you have in your hands the power
to change your life. You now have the tools that you need to choose success. Review this course
in time to time, review all these tapes, especially review this one. This is packed with information here.
A lot of information that I've been able to collect from taking the course, repeating the course,
and studying the course from the many of the best lectures that we have in the United States
and abroad. Studied from them all and learned from them all, and especially from Jose Silva and
Juan Silva. There are so many little tips and things that we've picked up along the way. These
are covered in here to a large extent, so it's probably more than you can really get completely
just listening one time. So, review the course from time to time, review all the tapes. They are
packed with information to help you succeed. And, most importantly, practice, practice, practice.
Also, remember what our purpose is to help correct problems on the planet, your own problems,
of course. You must prepare the vehicle, you're a vehicle, and in order to be the best
problem-solving agent that you can be, you need to have your own life under control.
But always keep your motive in mind, helping to correct all the problems that we can correct on
this planet. Program to correct a problem that affects both you and someone else.
Program for both of you, it's often a matter of attitude. You are correcting a problem that you
have so that you can be more successful, because that way you will be helping to correct problems
and make life a little better for other people as well. For all of us together, we're all in this
together. Enter your level every day, at least once a day, twice as better, three times as best.
Also, get out into the world and apply yourself. You can't do it all at level and ignore the
object of reality. You must have feedback, and though that your program is working, you must
get out and work at both dimensions. You know, we don't want to use just the left brain hemisphere,
nor do we want to use just the right brain hemisphere. That would be like using only your left leg
or only your right leg. You want to use both. If you program to be more confident, go out and be
more confident. Let your results guide you. Program in a manner that you would expect to see some
kind of progress, some result within three days. If things get better, then you know you're on the
right track. That's the way that our helpers on the other side let us know that we're going in the
correct direction. That's how we get guidance from higher intelligence. If you program for something,
and you encounter a problem, solve the problem and then continue on. When you encounter another
problem, solve that problem and continue on. But notice, did it take longer to solve the second
problem than it did to solve the first problem? If it did, take note of that. When you encounter a
third problem, if it takes twice as long to solve the third problem as it did to solve the second
problem and it took twice as long to solve the second problem as it did to solve the first one,
then the other side is telling you that you're moving in the wrong direction. That's the way they
give us the feedback. On the other hand, if the second problem takes only half as long to solve
as the first and the third takes only half as long as the second, then continue on. Full speed ahead.
The other side is telling you that you're on the right track. Keep on going. That's how you use
feedback. Now in this next conditioning cycle, which is about 15 minutes long, I'll explain the
mirror of the mind, we'll program it and impress it, and then I'll give you time to work on one
problem case. You visualize the problem in the blue frame mirror. After making a good study of it,
erase the problem image, move the mirror to your left, and create and project onto the white
framed mirror, the solution image. Then remember that in the future when you work on this project,
you will not use the blue frame mirror, but will visualize the solution image that you have created,
framed in white. Now when you are ready, you have a project to work on, you've decided what one
project you want to work on here, then you use the mirror of the mind conditioning. Thank you.
