This is the hand levitation and glove anesthesia conditioning exercise of the selva method.
Prepare for this mind training exercise by finding a comfortable sitting position.
I will now review briefly how to enter level 1 with the hand levitation method.
When we begin, you will assume any rect sitting position allowing yourself enough room to raise your arm comfortably.
Then you will look at and concentrate on your stronger hand while both hands rest on your lap, palms down.
While I count slowly from 10 to 1, you will go through a complete cycle of hand levitation.
When I reach the count of 1, the back of your hand will contact your face and you will enter a deeper, healthier level of mind.
I will be giving you directions on each descending number when we begin the count.
Now, assume a comfortable erect sitting position. Place your hands on your lap, palms down.
Keep your eyes open and do not close them until the back of your hand touches your face.
I will give you directions on each number.
10. Look at your stronger hand. Keep your eyes focused on your hand.
9. Cause your hand to feel sensitive, very sensitive.
Slowly, cause one finger to move, then cause your fingers to separate from one another, and at the same time, cause your hand to rise from your lap.
8. Continue to allow your hand to rise in the direction of your face.
7. Higher and higher. Feel your arm becoming lighter and lighter as the back of your hand draws closer and closer to your face.
Your hand may feel as though a balloon is lifting it.
6. Allow your hand and arm to become still lighter and lighter as you continue to help them rise higher and higher.
5. They become lighter and lighter as you allow your hand and arm to rise higher and higher.
9. Now beyond the midpoint between your face and your lap.
4. Raise them higher and higher.
9. When I reach the count of 1, you will have entered level 1, the basic plane level.
3. Your hand and arm rise higher and higher and become lighter and lighter.
9. Now drawing very near your face.
6. You are now beginning to enter the basic plane level.
1. The back of your hand now touches your face.
6. And while exhaling, return your hand to a resting position on your lap.
6. You are now at a deeper, healthier level of mind, deeper than before.
9. To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, I am going to count from 10 to 1.
9. Feel going deeper, 8. 7. 6. Deeper and deeper, 5. 4. 3. Deeper and deeper, 2. 1.
9. You are now at a deeper, healthier level of mind, deeper than before.
9. You may enter a deeper, healthier level of mind by simply relaxing your eyelids, relax your eyelids.
9. Feel how relaxed they are.
9. Allow this feeling of relaxation to flow slowly down with throughout your body, all the way down to your toes.
9. It is a wonderful feeling to be deeply relaxed, a very healthy state of being.
9. To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, I am going to count from 1 to 3.
9. At that moment you will project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation.
9. I will then stop talking to you, and when you next hear my voice, 1 hour of time will have a lapse at this level of mind.
9. My voice will now start you. You will take a deep breath, relax, and go deeper.
1. 2. 3. Project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation until you hear my voice again.
9. Relax.
9. Relax. Take a deep breath, and as you exhale, relax and go deeper.
9. You will continue to listen to my voice. You will continue to follow the instructions at this level of mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level.
9. This is for your benefit. You desire it, and it is so.
9. Whenever you, mentally or verbally mention the word, relax.
9. All unnecessary movements and activities of your body, brain and mind will cease immediately, and you will become completely passive and relaxed, physically and mentally.
9. Let me bring you out of this level, or deeper levels in this, by counting to you from 1 to 5.
9. At the count of 5, your eyes will open, you will be wide awake, feeling fine, and in perfect health.
9. The difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of their minds and use them in a special manner.
9. You are now learning to use more of your mind, and to use it in a special manner.
9. The following are beneficial statements that you may occasionally repeat while at these levels of the mind. Repeat mentally after me.
9. My increasing mental faculties are for serving humanity better.
9. Every day, in every way, I am getting better, better and better.
9. Positive thoughts bring me benefits and advantages. I desire.
9. I have full control and complete dominion over my sensing faculties, at this level of the mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level, and this is so.
9. The following preventive statements are for your better health. Keep in mind that from now on, I will occasionally be speaking in your place.
9. I will never learn to develop, physically or mentally, mental disorders, nor psychosomatic, or functional ailments, or diseases.
9. I will never learn to develop, physically or mentally, a dependence on drugs or alcohol.
9. Negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me, at any level of the mind.
9. I will always maintain a perfectly healthy body and mind.
9. Mental projection statements for success. I am now learning to attune my intelligence by developing my sensing faculties, and to project them to any problem area, so as to become aware of any abnormalities, if this is necessary and beneficial for humanity.
9. I am now learning to apply corrective measures, and to correct any abnormality I detect.
9. Negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me, at any level of the mind.
9. Impression of information for your benefit, programming. We have impressed and programmed how to enter level 1 with the hand levitation method.
You may use hand levitation to enter deeper, healthier, programming levels.
Remember, every time you practice hand levitation, you will enter deeper levels of mind.
9. Glove anesthesia, a formula-type technique that you can practice to develop control of physiological pain, and in many cases, control of bleeding and hemorrhaging.
9. Glove anesthesia is a development of a feeling that is different from the normal, and usually developed on the less strong of the two hands.
It could be a cool or cold feeling, or a feeling such as a tingling sensation, a vibration, as though your hand is asleep, as though you have a leather glove on your hand, as though your hand is made of wood, as though you have no hand.
Any feeling other than the normal will be considered to be glove anesthesia.
In a moment, I'm going to count from 1 to 3. At that moment, you will place your stronger hand into an imaginary container of hot water standing by your side.
The water is hot, you can stand a temperature.
1, 2, 3. Now, place your hand into the imaginary container of hot water by your side.
Bring back a memory when you had your hand in hot water before, anytime that you can recall vividly.
Now, lift your hand out of the hot water, and let it rest on your lap.
I will now count from 1 to 3. At that moment, you will place your other hand into a container of ice water with cracked ice standing by your side.
1, 2, 3. Now, place your hand into the imaginary container of ice water with cracked ice standing by your side.
1, 2, 3. Now, place your hand into the imaginary container of ice water with cracked ice standing by your side.
Recall the time when you had your hand in ice water.
Feel the ice water and the cracked ice between your fingers.
Feel your hand icy cold.
While your hand is getting colder and colder every second,
let us review the first 10 memory pegs to improve visualization by using the mental screen.
1, the letter T, the word T.
Project it on your mental screen, a picture of a glass of T.
2, the letter N, the word NOAA.
Project on your mental screen, a picture of a man with a long white beard.
3, the letter M, the word MA.
Project a mental picture of a calendar on your screen.
4, the letter R, the word RA.
Mental picture, sun rays.
5, the letter L, the word L.
Mental picture, a policeman.
7, the letter J, the word JA.
Mental picture, a man with a large job.
7, the letter K, the word K.
Mental picture, a large gold key.
8, the letter F, the word F.
Mental picture, a price tag of $8 million.
9, the letter B, the word B.
Mental picture, land and water.
10, the letters T and S, the word TOEWS.
Mental picture, 10 TOEWS.
10, the letter F, the word K.
Let your hand dry and get colder in this position.
I will tell you when to bring it down.
I continue to keep your eyes closed.
As soon as you learn to develop love anesthesia,
and after testing it and becoming satisfied with the results,
start practicing the transferring of this anesthesia to other parts of the body.
First, practice transferring this anesthesia from one hand to the other,
by placing the anesthetized hand over the other hand for a few seconds,
then test the other hand for anesthesia.
When this has become effective, practice transferring the anesthesia from either hand to any other part of the body.
This is done by placing either hand over that part of the body
and holding it in that position for a few seconds.
Finally, you can learn by practicing to program yourself
so that by concentrating on any discomfort and mentally saying the word GONE,
the discomfort will be GONE.
Now bring your hand down, place it on your lap,
and test it for co-owness and insensibility with your other hand.
Now remove all abnormal feeling from your hand,
by rubbing it three times with your other hand from the wrist toward the fingers,
bringing all feeling back to normal.
Your hand now feels as it did before the exercise.
You may reinforce the effects of this formula by practice.
To correct health problems, controls are applied under a doctor supervision.
In your next session, we will impress and program a formula-type technique for your benefit,
the mental rehearsal technique.
Every time you function at these levels of the mind,
you will receive beneficial effects physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help yourself physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help your loved ones physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help any human being who needs help physically and mentally.
You will never use these levels of the mind to harm any human being.
If this be your intention, you will not be able to function within these levels of the mind.
You will always use these levels of the mind in a constructive, creative manner,
all that is good, honest, pure, clean, and positive.
And this is so.
You will continue to strive to take part in constructive and creative activities,
to make this a better world to live in, so that when we move on,
we shall have left behind a better world for those who follow.
You will consider the whole of humanity depending on their ages,
as fathers or mothers, brothers or sisters, sons or daughters.
You are a superior human being.
You have greater understanding, compassion, and patience with others.
In a moment, I'm going to count from one to five.
At that moment, you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine, and in perfect health,
feeling better than before.
You will have no ill-effects whatsoever in your head, no headache,
no ill-effects whatsoever in your hearing, no buzzing in your ears,
no ill-effects whatsoever in your vision and eyesight.
Vision, eyesight, and hearing improve every time you function at these levels of mind.
One, two, coming out slowly now.
Three, at the count of five, you will open your eyes, be wide awake,
feeling fine, and in perfect health, feeling better than before.
Feeling the way you feel when you have slept the right amount,
of revitalizing, refreshing, relaxing, healthy, wonderful sleep.
Four, five, eyes open, wide awake, feeling fine, and in perfect health,
feeling better than before.
This concludes the hand levitation and glove anesthesia exercise for the silver method.
Thank you.
You
