Now, we want to make sure that you're using these powerful alpha levels correctly.
So let's talk about positive thinking.
We have a technique that we call mental house cleaning that deals with positive thinking.
If your brain functions like a computer, operates on electrical energy, well, like other
computers, it also has the ability to store information in its memory banks.
Now as you store this information, you can then retrieve this information.
You can use this information for problem solving, for making decisions.
So it becomes pretty important what information is in there, isn't it?
There's a computer term, GIGO, garbage in, garbage out.
It applies to the brain, too.
Whatever you put in the brain, whatever you put in your computer's memory banks, that's
what you're going to have to make decisions on.
There's a lot of simple things like somebody who may go around saying, oh, that makes me
sick to hear about that.
That now is an instruction going into the brain, oh, it's not going to affect you right away,
but sooner or later it's going to have an effect on you, isn't it?
It will do it eventually.
Somebody says, oh, that person gives me a headache, whenever they show around they give me a
headache.
Well, only if they hit you in the head.
Otherwise you are creating the headache yourself.
You keep telling the brain that, you know you don't mean it, but you keep putting that
information in the computer and sooner or later it's going to start to happen.
Was a student who took the course with me.
A man who was 55 years old, gray hair and a gray beard and lots of lines on his face.
He could tell he lived a lot.
He was a PhD, but he was unemployed at the time, was smoking pot.
By the way, dreams, his dreams are the things that turned him around.
When he started remembering his dreams, he learned so much about himself.
He quit doing dope, he went out and got a job, became very productive.
But even before that, the mental house cleaning impressed him a lot.
He came back for the second half of the course and he says, you know, I've been thinking
about this mental house cleaning.
He says, there are certain expressions that I use.
I say, things like, I can't see that.
It gives me a headache and it's a pain in the, well, let me put it this way.
I wear glasses, I have migraines and I have hemorrhoids.
Could it be a coincidence?
Or maybe holding those thoughts over and over, saying those things over and over?
Maybe the brain finally said, okay, let's create that.
Whatever you believe you can do or believe you can't do, that's pretty much right for you.
If you go around saying, oh, I could never be successful as such and such,
you're really cutting off your options.
You no longer have the option to be successful.
Why not say, I'm going to give it a try.
Maybe I could just do that.
Maybe I could.
Then at least you're giving yourself a chance to do whatever it is you want to do.
See, the key is the mental picture that you have.
If you say, well, I don't know, public speaking frightens me.
I'm not sure I want to get up and give a speech.
I get so scared, what picture are you creating?
You're creating a picture of yourself being scared.
And what's going to happen when you get up there?
You're going to be scared.
What happens if you get up and say, I'm going to give it a try.
I think I can do this.
Maybe not, but I think I can do this.
I'm going to get up and see.
And you imagine yourself giving the talk and not being frightened.
Then what's your brain going to do?
It's going to try to create whatever you picture in your mind.
It was a story that one instructor told one time that pretty much illustrates that.
Story is about somebody who's walking along the beach one day.
And they see this whole bottle laying out there.
It's kind of an interesting looking bottle.
So they picked up the bottle.
Brush the sand off of it.
And while they're rubbing the sand off of it, out pops a genie.
Oh, and his genie is so grateful.
Says, oh, you freed me from the bottle.
Thank you so much for doing this.
Says in repayment to repay you for this, I will give you anything that you want.
All you need to do is ask and you can have anything that you want.
This person stands here and looks at it like, what are you talking about?
Come on, this can't be for real, can it?
Genie says anything you want, you just say the word and it's yours.
The person says, well, you know, I'd like a nice car, a nice convertible.
So Genie says, okay, Master, you've got it.
Boom.
There's a convertible right up on the parking lot, right up over the dunes.
There's this beautiful bright red convertible.
This guy goes up there and he takes a look at this convertible and there it is.
Registration in his name and everything.
It's his.
Wow.
You know, it'd be nice to have a nice house.
Okay, Master.
What kind of house would you like?
Oh, you know, a nice beach house right on the beach, I love the beach so much.
Okay, Master, you say the word, you've got it.
Boom.
There's your beach house.
And he looks and sure enough, there's this beautiful house there and he goes, he's got
the keys to it and everything and it's his house.
He says, wow, maybe this is true, that if I believe it and if I ask for it, maybe I can
get it.
He says, Genie, he really can't give me anything I want, is that right?
You say the word and it's yours.
He says, well, you know what I would like more than anything else.
Say the word, Master.
I would like for you to make me the most powerful person in the world.
But I know that even you could never do that.
And Genie says, okay, Master, you've got it.
I could never do that.
Be careful what pictures you put into that computer.
Be careful what information you store there because it does make a difference.
Do you want a life filled with success and happiness?
You can have a life filled with success and happiness.
It's your choice.
Let me give you an example of what I mean about that.
It was a story about Christopher Columbus sailing towards India, he thought.
Well, he was heading towards India.
He just didn't realize there was another continent in between.
Everybody was predicting he was going to fall off the edge, remember?
The earth was flat.
So he sails for days, for weeks and weeks, he's sailing out there.
And they see nothing.
And all of a sudden one day the lookout calls, hey Chris, Chris, hey Captain, look over there.
There's something over there.
Let's go over there.
Maybe that's the land that we've been looking for.
So they sail over in that direction and what do they find?
Just a bunch of tree limbs and branches and twigs and stuff floating out there.
They didn't find land.
He's not a continent, not even a little island, just a bunch of debris floating around.
Now, what happens?
Do you suppose that they got all discouraged and says, you know, after all these weeks
of looking for land, the only thing that we found was a bunch of twigs out here.
We might as well give up and go back to Europe, go back to Spain.
Well, no, they didn't do that.
They took a different viewpoint of it.
They said, well, it's a little disappointing that we haven't found land yet, but you
know, if there's a bunch of tree limbs and stuff, that means they must come from trees.
And if they came from trees, those trees must have been on land.
So there must be land around here somewhere.
Let's keep looking and find it.
They say, well, come on, does this have application in a real world?
That's a cute story.
Let me give you a real life example.
My dad retired when he reached his early 60s.
He had spent a lifetime in the newspaper business as a reporter and an editor and very good
one.
He retired.
He wanted to stay busy.
So he got involved helping some people who were putting together a seminar to teach people
how to be business brokers.
You know, a broker is one who brokers deals.
In other words, if you wanted to buy your own business, to buy a business and be in business
for yourself, you would go to a business broker who would help you find a business and
purchase it.
Or if you wanted to sell your business, you would get a broker, same as you would get a real
estate broker for selling your house.
So they were going to put together a seminar for business brokers.
Well, my dad wrote up ads and brochures for them.
Even wrote up their manual.
They gave them all the information about being a business broker and he prepared the
manual to be used in the seminars.
Only thing was that the last minute they decided to drop the project, not go forward, and
they never conducted any seminars.
Well, he was kind of disappointed in that, but he said, well, I've got all this information.
I've already put it together in a seminar manual.
Why not write a book about it?
Well, I thought that was a great idea and I wanted to keep him occupied.
People have to have a purpose in life.
If you don't have a purpose, you may not stick around.
That was a little concern about that.
So I wanted to make sure he had a purpose in life.
So I got together with him.
I helped him prepare a proposal that he sent off to several publishers.
And sure enough, before too long, he got his first response back from a publisher who
says, I cannot look at your proposal.
Here it is.
I haven't even looked at it because we just signed a contract with another writer to write
a book on the same subject.
Well, okay.
A couple of days later, he got another response from another publisher that says, we're returning
a proposal to you.
It was a good idea, but we've already got a book.
We just released a book on business brokerage.
Well, there's a set of circumstances.
How did he choose to look at those?
He got discouraged.
He said, look at that.
I was too late.
It was a chance to do something.
I couldn't have had an opportunity, but I was just too late getting into it.
It's too bad.
That's the way my life is going.
He was discouraged and he was depressed.
I looked at those same set of circumstances and says, why should we consider it a failure?
This is a hot topic right now.
This is what I told him.
This is a subject that publishers are obviously interested in.
These publishers went to the trouble of writing you and letting you know that this is a topic
that's interesting that people are involved with right now.
All you got to do is find a publisher out there who wants a project like this, who's looking
for a book on this topic, let him know that you've got the information.
You can have it together very quickly for them and they'll sign a contract with you.
So, okay, he decided to take that approach.
He sent out some more proposals and sure enough, he got an offer from somebody.
They worked it all out.
They executed a contract.
They worked together on the book.
They put together the book.
And he ended up with a big, large, hardcover business book that sold for about 29.95.
He was so proud of that.
He told me that of all the things he had done in the newspaper business, the awards he
had won, the stories that he had covered, of all the things he had done, he was proud
of doing that book.
So before he died, he had a tremendous success like that that made him feel really good.
It's a matter of choices.
It's a matter of choices.
If you want your life filled with success, you learn how to take an optimistic point of
view.
Enter your level, the alpha level, and think about the good side of things.
I saw a slogan once on a license plate.
It said, look for the good and praise it.
That's a pretty good idea to go with.
You can do that in your life.
It's your choice.
It is your choice as to what you choose to do with your life.
I want to share with you now the secret that Jose Silva learned through his research,
through his observations of super-successful people over many decades, a secret that is
a key to all great success and happiness and sense of satisfaction.
I'm going to give you the secret that will make all the techniques of the Silva method
really work for you.
What Jose Silva realized as he studied both the unsuccessful people, the failures, and
the successful ones?
What he realized as he worked and confirmed over and over again as he worked with thousands
of people, what he learned was that a correct sense of values is an important factor of success.
In fact, this was so important to Mr. Silva and his work as a holistic faith healer.
He was a very successful holistic faith healer.
There's one story that he tells.
He thought he was on to something.
He thought that his research was producing something that was really going to be valuable,
but he wanted to be sure.
He took ten people who were sick, who were in the hospital, who had serious illnesses,
chronic illnesses.
Many were expected to die, none were expected to recover from their illnesses.
He said, if I'm really on to something here, if I'm really learning how to use my mind,
if I'm really learning something about holistic faith healing, I won't real concrete evidence
to back me up.
So he began to work on those ten people.
As he needed it, he would work on them.
He said he felt that if one of those people got well and recovered, who was not supposed
to, who was not expected to, if one of them recovered, that would be a good sign, but
it could be a coincidence.
But if two of them recovered out of those ten who were not expected to recover, that would
be confirmation that he was headed in the right direction.
Well, he continued to work on those people.
One recovered, two recovered, eventually, over a three-year period, every single one of
those ten people got over their illnesses, recovered from their problems.
That showed him in no uncertain terms that he was really on to something good.
Well, it was a good healer.
He had a good reputation, and there's still people here that come and ask him for healing,
and he says, no, what I do now is teach you how to do it.
He said, there's too many people in the world for me to heal everybody personally.
So he now concentrates his attention on training the rest of us on how to heal people.
But a sense of values was so important to Mr. Silva that he made sure that he talked
with the patients before he'd work on them.
Here's what he wrote about, that's it, his autobiography, about the necessity for
a correct sense of values.
This is a direct quote from his autobiography.
He said, I would ask the patient some questions, such as, do you really want to be healed?
I would add, because my time is very valuable, and I do not intend to waste it.
Of course the answer was always, yes, I want to be healed.
Some even felt insulted by my asking such a question.
The next question was, why do you want to be healed?
Now, if their answer was to be a better wife, or husband or son or daughter, and help
by being a perfect human being who will help solve the problems of my neighborhood, my
city, my state, my nation, if they answered like that, then there was no more to say.
I would go on to work and help the patient.
But if the answer centered on how the patient needed to live it up, to enjoy life, not
helping anything or anybody, then I would try to straighten out the patient's way of
thinking before starting the healing.
This comes from volume one of his autobiography, page 245.
Let me mention right here that I realize that not everybody is ready to accept all of
these ideas.
For instance, the idea that if the patient isn't willing to honor his responsibility on
this planet that it's going to be very difficult to heal that patient, that's fine if you don't
buy these ideas.
Feel free to study them.
Take as long as you need to examine them and determine their worth.
You can accept or reject anything I say any time during our discussions, during the
conditioning cycles.
However, you do have another option that I would suggest that you consider, I would
submit for your consideration.
Instead of automatically forcing yourself to accept something you're not ready for or reject
something and thereby cut yourself off from that being a possibility in your life, you
could say maybe I need some more information to know what to do, to know whether to accept
this or not.
So you can kind of put it on a shelf, kind of like a mental shelf and you can mentally
shelve the idea for the time being, so let me wait until I have more information.
Let me wait until I know how to analyze this information at the alpha level because see
the alpha level is the spiritual level and a lot of times we view things differently
from that level.
Just as Silva says, we pray on each other, we pray on each other at beta, we pray
P-R-A-Y for each other at alpha, so you might find at alpha, once you become comfortable
functioning at those levels, that these things will make sense, but it's your choice.
You do what you need to with this experience.
Mr. Silva believes that it's very important for us to understand what's important in
life.
He tells a story about something that happened here in Laredo many, many years ago when
he was beginning his research, and it made no sense to him whatever.
It was a silly argument between two neighbors.
One neighbor had a garden in the backyard, had some plants there.
The next door neighbor had some chickens in their backyard, they get eggs from the chickens.
One day, during the day, some of the neighbor's chickens got over into the yard next door
and tore up some of the plants.
Well, the women started arguing with each other.
Why did you let your chickens get in here and tear up the plants?
And I didn't do it on purpose, and you know you're not such a good, and they began an
argument with each other.
Well, in the evening, when the husband's got home, the wives told the husbands their
respective husbands about the argument and about the fight that they'd had.
Well, pretty soon the husbands are going over to talk to each other, and they're over
their argument with each other about it.
Well, you ought to tell your wife that you thought it, and there's this big argument that
blows up.
Pretty soon one of the men goes in, he gets a gun, comes back out, and he shoots and kills
the other man.
The man who did the shooting was arrested, was tried for murder, convicted, and locked
away in prison.
Now look what you have.
One husband and father is dead, leaving a widow and children without a father.
The other is locked up in prison for great many years, leaving his wife with no husband,
his children with no father to take care of them.
Two families were in, two lives were in, simply because a chicken got over into a neighbor's
yard and tore up a few plants.
Is it really worth that?
We've got to get our sense of values right, according to Jose Silva.
We've got to put things in a perspective, and focus on what's really important.
Well, what is really important?
It's important that we fulfill our mission in life, that we do what we were sent here
to do.
Nice of med for your consideration, that your mission seems to be to help correct problems,
and make the world a better place to live.
Why do we feel that way?
Why does Mr. Silva feel so strongly about that?
For those of us who take this course and who understand this, there are two reasons.
Our observations of successful people over great many years, as a people who are the most
successful in all areas, who are successful financially or successful in health, who are
successful in their relationships, and all other ways, they function this way.
The second reason is that when people follow this advice, those who choose to follow this
advice experience much more success than those who feel that the best way is to go out
and try to get everything that they can for themselves.
So if you can accept it, you can reject it, or you can put it on a mental shelf and
think about it more later, as always, the choice is yours.
Jose Silva's formula for prosperity and abundance is a very simple one.
Says, program to correct problems, to make the world a better place to live, and keep
in mind what your needs are, plus a little bit more.
If you're really working and helping to correct problems, if you're making the world a better
place for people, you will be fairly compensated, your needs will be met.
It doesn't mean you'll get everything you want, but you'll get everything that you need.
Let's look at a practical example.
Suppose you want to sell a house or buy a house, a lot of people do that.
You contact a real estate agent, several of them.
Now the first real estate agent who comes is that first kind of person we were talking
about.
They'll do anything to make that commission.
They're desperate for money.
They'll do whatever it takes, even if it's not something in your best interest, because
they want that commission for themselves.
The second real estate agent, maybe it's a little different kind.
Maybe this is a real estate agent who is determined to make the best deal for all concern, to make
sure that everybody is satisfied with the deal, even if it takes a little longer to make
the deal.
Even if it means they get a little bit less money in their commission, they are really
interested in saying that you are satisfied that you got what you wanted out of the deal.
Now which one do you want to deal with?
The one that has a high drive and energy to make as much as possible for himself, no
matter what the cost to other people, or the one that has your best interest at heart,
who wants to make a commission, but who also wants to make sure that you're satisfied.
Which one of those people do you think you wind up referring to your friends?
Which one of those is going to end up with the most customers?
The selfish one are the selfless one.
Sometimes from beta, from a left brain perspective, it may seem as though we should be trying to
get everything we can for ourselves.
But from alpha, from a right brain spiritual perspective, we can see otherwise.
The truth is, success and happiness and prosperity and satisfaction come not so much from what
we get, but from what we give.
Just remember though, keep in mind that you must have a balance you give and you also receive.
If you do not permit the people that you give to, to compensate you, then you're cheating
them out of the wonderful opportunity to gain all of the benefits of giving.
So be unselfish, keep a balance in your life, between giving and getting.
Do what you can to correct problems when it's appropriate, and accept the compensation
that comes with that.
Expect it and accept it.
And one other point to keep in mind here, you are not the sole judge of the value of your
problem-solving efforts.
You could be out there working very hard, digging ditches, but the ditches don't help anybody
or solve any problems that all of your hard work has no value.
So it's not hard work that we're compensated for.
It is the problems that we solve and the value of the problems that we solve.
How do you determine the value of the work that you do?
You determine it by the compensation that you receive.
When you are doing things that are necessary and beneficial for humanity that are really
correcting problems, then you'll get everything that you need in your life.
No, it's not always a direct compensation.
Don't expect that.
When you do $5 worth of work for somebody, they may not give you $5 in compensation for
that.
Or you may not even see it directly.
But overall, you will be compensated.
It was a civil that tells a story, and this is in his autobiography also, tells a story
about a time when he was working to heal a man in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico.
He was driving over three times a day across the international bridge into Mexico, paying
the tolls to go over, paying a toll to come back, using his own gasoline, working on this
man.
Doctors had not been able to help this man.
Even the Rosacrucians had tried, with all of their healing techniques, they had not been
able to help this man.
The brujos had not been able to help, as a civil wanted to try his techniques that he
was studying.
So for 30 days, three times a day, he drove across the bridge, he worked on the man with
his holistic faith healing techniques, and at the end of that 30 days, the man was cured.
Well, in talking with one of his friends about it, in a discussion there, the friend said,
I'll bet you, Jose, that he didn't even offer to reimburse you for the bridge tolls,
did he?
Are your gasoline much less the time you spent away from your business when you should
have been there managing the business and earning some money?
He said, in fact, how much do you think it cost you to do that?
Jose thought about it, and he did some figuring, and he said, well, it probably cost about
$500 to go over and do that.
This see, the man didn't even appreciate it enough to offer to reimburse you for the
bridge tolls.
Jose says, that doesn't matter.
He says, I will be compensated.
My needs are taken care of.
I'm doing well.
I'm compensated for what I do.
I don't need to worry about that.
Well, by coincidence, that night, Paula Selvin, Jose Selva's wife Paula, wanted to go
over to the church and play bingo.
So she asked Jose if he could go with her.
So he wanted to take a little time off, spend a little quality time with his wife, so
he did.
He went over there with her.
Instead of working late that night, he went to the church.
He went ahead.
He'd got bingo cards just like everybody else did.
He played just like everybody else did.
He didn't really care one way or the other.
He simply wanted to spend time with his wife.
But guess who won the big jackpot that night, right, Jose Selva?
That's how much it was, right again, $500.
So the next day, she's his friend again, and he told him about what happened.
He says, you know, maybe that's the way, that's the way that higher intelligence on the
other side compensates us.
Maybe it's not directly all the time, but maybe we get compensated that way.
His friend says, oh, you and your silly ideas.
Well, Mr. Selva is so convinced that this is correct, that at the very strongest part
of the conditioning cycle right at the very end of it, just before you come out of level,
let me read to you, the statement that he has, and we'll include this in the next conditioning
and all of them from here on.
Here's a statement, says you will continue to strive to take part in constructive and
creative activities, to make this a better world to live in, so that when we move on, we
shall have left behind a better world for those who follow.
You will consider the whole of humanity depending on their ages as fathers or mothers, brothers
or sisters, sons or daughters.
You are a superior human being, you have greater understanding, compassion, and patience
with others.
Let's look at that statement for just a moment.
You will continue to strive.
Let's say you have to accomplish everything that you go out for, but make an honest effort.
To take part in constructive and creative activities.
To make this a better world to live in, that's simple enough, isn't it?
The Creator, if you want to be close to the Creator, then help the Creator with the creation.
The Creator is not a destroyer, it is tragic that so many of the wars going on in the world
right now today and throughout history have been fought over religion.
People are destroying each other, destroying the creation of the Creator, and the name
of the Creator.
It's not a destroyer, it's a Creator.
We have an obligation to take part in constructive and creative activities.
To make it a better world to live in, better for everybody, nobody should suffer in the
process of making it a better world, that's how you determine what's right.
So that when we move on, we shall have left behind a better world for those who follow.
That seems like kind of a silly statement in a sense, doesn't it?
I mean, aren't we here to have more success for ourselves?
What do we mean?
Leave behind a better world for those who follow.
I asked Mr. Silva one day, finally dawned on me what he was talking about.
I said, that's a statement of unselfishness, isn't it?
To help correct problems and to do it because that's what we're here for and that's what
we should be doing and that's right, not because we'll be compensated, but because
it's the right thing to do.
So when you're doing it for someone who cannot compensate you because it's people who
will be here after we're gone, who are going to benefit, then that really makes it
unselfish, doesn't it?
And he didn't even say yes or no.
He looked with just such a brightness in his eyes that somebody had finally figured out
what he was talking about.
He said, Ed, if it weren't for that attitude, if it weren't for that attitude, we wouldn't
have this course today.
That's how powerful that is.
He didn't do his research to make money.
He spent 22 years investing his own money, half a million dollars in 22 years.
He was delving into new areas that people didn't know about.
He was criticized by businesses, by his friends, even by his church, because they didn't
know what it was that he was doing.
They didn't understand and there's always that fear of the unknown.
He did it because he felt that he was being led to research and to study and to find out
how to help people do better.
Everyone who asked him for help, he helped him.
For free, he never accepted a penny.
He even tried to give the work to the government in 1966 after 22 years.
He tried to give all of his research to the government and they turned it down.
The National Institute for Science sent him a letter and turned him down.
Try to give it to the church.
They weren't interested either.
So many people wanted the work.
He said the only way that I can do this on a full-time basis is to earn income from it.
So let me see if it'll work that way and it did.
People were willing to pay.
But he did the work.
He made the contributions first.
He did what he was supposed to do.
His needs were always met.
He had a business that provided enough money that he could afford to do all of this.
He stuck with it.
This is what we're talking about.
We would not have this course if Jose Silva had felt that people should be paying him
for all the help that he was giving him for those 22 years.
The next part of the statement, you will consider the whole of humanity depending on their
ages as fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, sons or daughters.
A lot of people go around saying, all men or brothers, you're all my brothers and sisters
on this planet, that's not quite right.
We respond one way to brothers and sisters, people within 15 years or so of our own age.
I bet people somebody 20, 30 years older than us.
We don't treat them quite the same.
We should treat them with a certain amount of difference in respect for what they have
been through and what they have accomplished.
What about people 20 years, 15, 20 years younger than we are?
We don't treat them the same either.
Young people we need to nurture them.
We need to help them.
We need to allow for their youth and inexperience.
So we treat people differently.
That's really quite a statement.
If you think in your dealings, go to your level sometime, review the day all the people
that you dealt with.
Did you deal with them the same way as you would deal with your father or mother or your
brother or sister or your son or your daughter?
If you do that, you are then a superior human being.
You have greater understanding, compassion, and patience with others.
Well now we know the foundation that we work from, how to function with conscious awareness
at the alpha level, how to remain positive, how to fill our consciousness with success,
and we understand, or at least we've taken a good look at, establishing a correct sense
of values.
Now it's time to do another conditioning cycle.
This will be about eight or ten minutes maybe, maybe a little less than that.
Now remember to review your reasons for practicing and for learning to enter the alpha level.
The additional statements that we'll have in this will do the same as what we did before,
all the things we had before.
An addition will have beneficial statements, like by increasing mental faculties or for serving
humanity better.
This one's our slogan every day and every way, I'm getting better, better, and better.
Positive thoughts bring me benefits and advantages I desire.
I have full control and complete dominion over my sensing faculties at this level of the
mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level, and this is so.
The protective statements, this is mind control, your own self-mind control.
You are always in control.
You may accept or reject anything I say at any level of the mind.
You are always in control.
For benefit statements for your better health, going to re-educate your brain and your mind
by saying at these deep levels associated with earlier time in our lives brain-wise, we're
going to say I will never learn to develop physically or mentally, mental disorders,
psychosomatic or functional ailments or diseases, or a dependency on drugs or alcohol.
We'll say negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me at any
level of the mind.
I will always maintain a perfectly healthy body in mind.
We'll preview the next exercise and we'll have our post-effects.
To remind you that every time you function at these levels of the mind, you'll receive
beneficial effects physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help yourself, to help your loved ones, to help
any human being who needs help physically and mentally.
You will affirm, which is true, that you will never use these levels of the mind to harm
any human being.
If this be our intention, you will not be able to function within these levels of the mind.
You cannot cause harm mentally at a distance.
Only physical force can cause harm, so we're not dealing with anything physical.
It can't cause harm.
We want to make sure that even if you start thinking negative thoughts, you'll come right
out of the level.
You'll always use these levels of the mind in a constructive, creative manner for all
that's good, honest, pure, lean, and positive.
We'll also include the statement that we were just talking about, and then we'll do our
bringout.
So if you're ready, if you got about eight minutes or so, then let's get ready for this.
Make yourself comfortable.
If you need a drink of water to go to the bathroom or anything, always do that first so
you can relax and be comfortable.
When you're ready, make yourself comfortable and we'll get started.
We will begin this exercise by asking you to assume a comfortable sitting position.
Close your eyes, take a deep breath, and while exhaling, relax and go deeper.
You are now at a deeper, healthier, level of mind.
To help you enter a deeper, healthier, level of mind, I'm going to count from 10 to 1.
Hold each descending number.
You will feel yourself going deeper, and you will enter a deeper, healthier, level of
mind.
10, 9, feel going deeper, 8, 7, 6, deeper, and deeper, 5, 4, 3, deeper, and deeper,
2, 1.
You are now at a deeper, healthier, level of mind, deeper than before.
You may enter a deeper, healthier, level of mind by simply relaxing your eyelids.
Make sure eyelids, feel how relaxed they are.
Allow this feeling of relaxation to flow slowly downward throughout your body, all the way
down to your toes.
It is a wonderful feeling to be deeply relaxed, a very healthy state of being.
To help you enter a deeper, healthier, level of mind, I'm going to count from 1 to 3.
At that moment you will project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation.
I will then stop talking to you, and when you next hear my voice, one hour of time will
have elapsed at this level of mind.
My voice will not startle you, it will take a deep breath, relax, and go deeper.
1, 2, 3, project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation until you hear my
voice again, relax.
Relax.
Take a deep breath, and as you exhale, relax and go deeper.
You will continue to listen to my voice, you will continue to follow the instructions
at this level of mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level.
This is for your benefit, you desire it, and it is so.
Whenever you mentally or verbally mention the word, relax.
All unnecessary movements and activities of your body, brain and mind will cease immediately,
and you will become completely passive and relaxed physically and mentally.
Now they bring you out of this level or a deeper level than this, by counting to you from
1 to 5.
At the count of 5, your eyes will open, you will be wide awake, feeling fine, and in perfect
health.
The difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of
their minds and use them in a special manner.
You are now learning to use more of your mind and to use it in a special manner.
The following are beneficial statements that you may occasionally repeat while at these
levels of the mind, repeat mentally after me.
My increasing mental faculties are for serving humanity better.
Every day, in every way, I am getting better, better and better.
My thoughts bring me benefits and advantages, I desire.
I have full control and complete dominion over my sensing faculties at this level of the
mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level, and this is so.
The following statements are for your protection.
This is mind control, your own self-mind control.
You are always in control.
You may accept or reject anything I say, anytime, at any level of the mind.
You are always in control.
The following preventive statements are for your better health.
Keep in mind that from now on, I will occasionally be speaking in your place.
I will never learn to develop physically or mentally, mental disorders, nor psychosomatic
or functional ailments or diseases.
I will never learn to develop physically or mentally a dependence on drugs or alcohol.
ative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me at any level of the mind.
I will always maintain a perfectly healthy body and mind.
In the next exercise, you will learn to use the 3-1 method for entering deep levels of
mind.
You will learn to use level 3 for complete physical relaxation from head to toes in a matter
of seconds.
You will learn to completely relax mentally at level 2.
You will learn to use the deepening exercises at level 1, when to use them and for how long.
You will learn to come out of any level of mind anytime.
In a later session, we will impress in program 5 formula type techniques for your practice
in developing the use of mind control for your better health, education, success and happiness.
The formula type techniques are sleep control, to awake control, awake control, dream control,
and had a control without drugs.
In health areas, controls are applied under a doctor's supervision.
Every time you function at these levels of the mind, you will receive beneficial effects
physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help yourself physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help your loved ones physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help any human being who needs help physically
and mentally.
You will never use these levels of the mind to harm any human being.
If this be your intention, you will not be able to function within these levels of the mind.
You will always use these levels of the mind in a constructive creative manner, all that
is good, honest, pure, clean and positive, and this is so.
You will continue to strive to take part in constructive and creative activities to make
this a better world to live in, so that when we move on, we shall have left behind
a better world for those who follow.
You will consider the whole of humanity depending on their ages as fathers or mothers, brothers
or sisters, sons or daughters.
You are a superior human being.
You have greater understanding, compassion and patience with others.
Then a moment I'm going to count from one to five.
At that moment, you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and imperfect health,
feeling better than before.
You will have no ill-effects whatsoever in your head, no headache, no ill-effects whatsoever
in your hearing, no buzzing in your ears, no ill-effects whatsoever in your vision and
eyesight.
Vision, eyesight and hearing improve every time you function at these levels of the mind.
One, two, coming out slowly now.
Three.
At the count of five, you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and imperfect
health, feeling better than before.
Feeling the way you feel when you have slept the right amount of revitalizing, refreshing,
relaxing, healthy, wonderful sleep.
Four.
Five.
Eyes open, wide awake, feeling fine and imperfect health, feeling better than before.

