The best way to learn to enter deep healthy levels of mind is through relaxation.
The alpha level is associated with relaxation.
Later, you can learn to be at alpha even when you're physically active, but to learn
relaxation is a great way to do it.
The long relaxation exercise, you will learn one of the best relaxation methods in the
world.
You will learn how to use your mind to relax your body.
You'll also learn how to relax your mind.
And in the process of doing this, you will enter the alpha brainwave level.
Jose Silva spent 22 years working out the details.
We know it works.
Now, there are many benefits of relaxation.
This can be very harmful.
Stress can hurt your health, can rein your relationships, can curtail your ability to concentrate
and learn, it can lower your productivity, creativity, problem solving ability, and it can
undermine your self-confidence and happiness.
On the other hand, relaxing at the alpha level for 15 minutes can strengthen your
immune mechanism and keep your health there.
Relaxing at alpha for 15 minutes will normalize everything in your body.
When it does that, it will slow the aging process.
It will also help you to be able to make better decisions and to correct more problems.
And it will help you to feel better and enjoy life more.
Well, let's talk just a little bit about stress.
How can you tell when you have stress, intention, and your life?
How do you know when you're under stress?
Some people feel it in their bodies, a knot in their stomach, tightness and soreness in
their muscles.
Some people get headaches, tension headaches from stress, intention, and their life.
Some people feel depressed or sometimes a feeling of fear or a sense of dread.
How do you sense tension and stress in your body?
What causes stress and tension in your life?
A lot of times we ask that question.
People say, money, and we say, oh, having too much money, and they say, no, no, not having
enough money.
Well, truth is, either one can cause stress.
A lot of times they say it's people in their lives that cause their stress.
Women will say, oh, it's my husband.
And the husband's, of course, will say, no, it's my wife.
Both agree that their children have stress in their lives, and of course children will
assure you that parents are one of the major causes of their stress.
Often times it's job-related, your employer or your employees if you happen to be the boss.
Are your neighbors or, well, you get the idea.
Another thing that causes a lot of stress is deadlines, pressure.
Too many things to do and too little time to do them.
In the world these days, we all know what that's like.
Still, it's important to find the time, to make the time, to relax.
Now when you've been under stress and all this energy is built up into your body, what
do you do to get rid of all that excess energy, that energy that's been built up by stress
and tension?
How do you deal with it?
Some people, a lot of people, in fact, use physical exercise.
They run, they do aerobics, they play facets of tennis or something like that.
They get rid of that energy.
Busy executives like to go out to the golf course.
Use that energy in a peaceful setting to help to deal with the stress that's built up
in their lives.
Hobbies work well for many people.
It's one man I met one time who loved to go out and work in his garden.
That was very relaxing for him.
He enjoyed pulling up weeds.
He said, you know, somebody's given me a hard time that when I'm pulling those weeds
out of the ground and throwing them away, I sometimes think about that person that gave
me a hard time.
So, he said, looking me in the eye, if you suddenly get the feeling that you're being
uprooted, then think about it.
Think about if you've done something to me that wasn't too nice.
I hope he was just kidding.
Some people relax by listening to music.
Or some will take a hot bath, they love that, or a shower, or spend time in a hot tub.
Everything is another popular way of relaxing.
There are many, many different ways.
There's a story about a truck driver who found his own way to relieve tension.
This truck driver had been on the road for several hours, and he pulled up to his favorite
truck stop, his favorite diner.
He puts it there, says, fuel it up, take care of the truck, and he went inside, sat
out at the counter, and here came his favorite waitress, who knew him by name, and loved
to have him stop there.
What do you have? He says, bring me my regular.
So she does.
She goes and prepares.
She brings him out this big sizzling, juicy steak, big baked potato with the sour cream
and bacon bits on it, beautiful salad with the special dressing that they made there,
and a big slice of apple pie with a big scoop of ice cream on top of it for dessert.
Well, about the time he was ready to start eating, the door opens in a bunch of noise and
carry it on, and in came three motorcycle riders dressed in their black leather jackets
with chains and scruffy looking and dirty and smelly, and they saw this gorgeous meal
that had just been set out on the counter, so they walk over there, sit out on each side
of the truck driver, and start helping themselves.
One person grabs his steak and picks it up and shoves it in his mouth and starts gnawing
on it.
Another one grabs a salad and a baked potato, and he starts shoveling the food into his
mouth.
He puts the hot apple pie with the ice cream on top of it and starts eating that, and
they look at the truck driver like, what are you going to do about it, fella?
Well, the truck driver just took a deep breath, stood up, went over the cash register, paid
the bill, and left.
And the motorcycle riders as they're finishing up his meal, they hear him crank up the truck
and pull out of the parking lot, and he drove out of the parking lot.
They look over at the waitress, who had obviously liked him so much, said, hey, you know,
that guy, he sure wasn't much of a man, was he?
The waitress looked him right in the eye and said, nope, and you know something else?
He's not much of a truck driver, either.
You know, he ran over three motorcycles while he was driving out of the parking lot?
Well, we may not all be able to take care of our tension in that way.
We may not have that alternative.
You know, your boss comes up and gives you a hard time.
You can't take physical action and haul off and punch your boss into nose, you're getting
too much trouble for that, and you have to go find a new boss after that anyway.
Driving down the street if somebody cuts you off, you may feel like running into him,
but he really can't do that.
They just get you in a lot of trouble and cost you a lot of money and creates more stress.
So sometimes it's kind of tough.
Much of the tension and the stress in our lives is caused by change, by fear of change,
by fear of the unknown.
Something happens and we're not sure of how to deal with it or how to cope with it.
The boss comes over and says, why did you do this?
Uh-oh.
Why did I do this?
What did I do?
Did I do something wrong?
He may be asking because he wants to praise you.
But so often it's that stress of not knowing what it is there, of not feeling in control.
Well, now this is natural.
Everybody experiences this.
It's like a biological defense mechanism that humanity has been perfecting for thousands
of years.
You imagine our ancestors out in prehistoric times trying to survive in the jungle?
They're walking along and all of a sudden they hear a rustling in the bushes.
Could be a small animal that maybe they could catch it, need it, or rabbit or something,
and that will enhance their chance for survival.
They'll live another day.
Or it could be a large animal who wants to eat them.
Either way, they need a burst of energy, what's called the flight or fight response.
They need to run away from danger or chase down something that would be good for them.
Stay in fight or get away, whatever it takes.
So the bodies, the people who survived were the ones whose bodies were best at providing
this energy.
The heart pumps faster.
We get adrenaline into our system and the blood sugar level goes up so the muscles have
more energy and more strength.
We can run.
We can fight.
We can do what we need to.
Just to get oxygen in, all of this energy.
Well, we no longer live in the jungle, but we still have those physiological reactions.
Something happens and suddenly we're tense.
This problem in traffic, we're running late, the phone rings and we don't want to deal
with, and we get this tension.
Well, if you will relax, deep relaxation for just 15 minutes, you will dissipate a lot
of that energy that you've accumulated during the day.
There's an added benefit, too.
When you function at the alpha level as you're learning to do, not only can you let the
energy drain away, you can become proactive.
You can take steps to correct whatever is causing the problems.
You can program to improve your financial situation, your job situation.
You can program to improve your relationships with other people.
You can program to correct any problems and improve any situation for your benefit.
The key is you have to let go and relax.
Now, if you're not accustomed to relaxing, it might take a little practice.
Took me a while to learn how to relax.
Sometimes it's kind of like the story about the man who, walking along, is I don't vacation
and he was looking at this beautiful canyon and he got a little bit too close to the edge
and he slipped and he fell over the edge and he starts falling down towards his long thousand
foot drop towards a certain death.
So he flailing around with his hands and grabbing for anything that he can and he manages
just a little ways down from the top, manages to grab hold of this little tiny tree that
was sticking out of the side of the cliff.
These hanging on with both hands for dear life, they need help.
He can't find a foothold, he can't get away to get back up to the top and he's not
that strong, so he's beginning to lose his grip and the roots are beginning to pull
out because the tree is not that big anyway.
So he looks up and he doesn't see anybody up there, but he calls out anyway, says, is there
anybody up there who can help me?
Then a voice comes out of the heavens and says, yes, I'm your guardian angel.
I can help you.
What do you need?
He says, look, I've fallen over the edge of the cliff and I need help to get me back
on top.
So pull me back up on top.
The angel says, okay, here's the plan.
He says, I'll get beneath you and you turn loose and I will catch you and place you back
on top.
Well, the guy looks up towards the top and he looks down to how far the fall is.
He doesn't see anybody there.
He's got to act on faith.
He's got to trust.
So then he says, is there anybody else up there who can help me?
Sometimes our situation may be terrible.
It may look like disaster, but at least it's something we're familiar with and we try
to hang on to it and hold on to it.
When you practice the long relaxation exercise, you must let yourself go and do not hold
anything back.
Get totally involved.
Follow the instructions and allow yourself to relax completely, physically and mentally.
Do this and I guarantee that you'll end up on top.
Your life will improve in every way.
There are many more benefits to practicing this long relaxation exercise.
You will find real power at deep levels of mind.
And it doesn't take a lot of depth to be able to use the formula type techniques that
you're learning in this home study course.
You can learn that pretty easily.
It doesn't even take a lot of depth to be able to function intuitively and clairvoyantly
as you learn in the Sylvan method basic lecture series.
So why do we want to achieve very deep levels of mind?
It's all a part of preparing yourself for real success in every area of your life.
You see, you are a vehicle.
You've been accumulating information throughout your entire life and you use that information
to make decisions and to guide your actions.
The better the vehicle, the better the results you'll receive.
The deeper you go, the more you will benefit.
The better programming you'll be able to do.
The real, natural you will surface.
And we've all had all kinds of experiences in our lives, some of them positive, some
of them not so positive.
Somebody figured out one time that the word that a child hears the most is the word no.
Children are so creative, they want to do things to learn, to accomplish things, to experience
the world, yet they have to learn to do these things correctly.
Sometimes really bad things happen to children and they carry around feelings of guilt or shame,
or feelings that they're not good people or not worthy.
Because an adult, you may understand that you were not at fault, that you were just being
a child.
But it's a child within that still has a problem.
Sometimes a parent will die when a child is very young.
They say a child doesn't really have a concept of death.
So they may come back and say, well, mommy went to be with God.
Oh, you mean mommy prefers being with God than to be with me?
And the child somehow feels guilty, feels like they're at fault, feels like maybe they're
unloved.
They're unlovable and capable of being loved.
Sometimes that's what happens.
And that child will carry that around within them, and it will affect everything that
the child does.
Now as an adult, you may realize that a parent dying or your parents getting divorced
was not your fault that you had nothing to do with it, but that child within still carries
that.
And the adult cannot change the way the child feels.
You have to get back to the child's level to make that change.
Sometimes children are abused, physically or otherwise.
Sometimes they're made to feel like they're worthless in many, many different ways.
Well, those are problems.
Those are impediments to our success.
We need to ventilate those impediments and to get rid of those things.
That's what it takes to be successful, and that's done at deep levels of mind, not
from the outer level, not from up here, but from deep within.
It was a silver-methy graduate who called the office just the other day.
In fact, a husband called, in a few days later, his wife called.
They'd had a business, but they hadn't done very well in it.
They lost the business and they cost them a lot of money.
Now the husband was trying to sell real estate.
He was discouraged when he called.
He was discouraged because he was getting close to getting listings, but they kept going
to someone else.
That was trying to encourage him and to let him know that if you're getting that close
it's just the matter of getting a little closer and finding what you need.
Well, a couple of days later his wife called and she talked to me for a while, and she
gave me some additional information.
She said her husband had recently found out that when he was a child, some really horrible
things had happened to him, some things that involved his father.
She didn't elaborate or tell me what it was.
Well, now we've got a different situation.
Because the problem is if he feels guilt and shame, if he feels that he was at fault,
if he feels that he deserved it, that he was a bad person, then he's carrying that around
inside of himself.
That child within might still be experiencing all of that, and no matter what the adult
thinks about the situation, it's there within the child.
Now when he's going out and talking to people about wanting to list their house, wanting
to help them, if there's something deep within him that says, I'm not a good person,
I'm not a really worthwhile person, then that's going to be expressed in some way.
It's going to come out in his body language, in the way that he talks, in the things that
he does, or what he says, or how he says it, or some way, or maybe just on some subjective
level that you can't quite quantify, physically and objectively.
And people are going to sense that.
Now are people going to list their houses with him?
His wife said he had just had one, the person says, I'll list with you, come back on
Monday, but on Sunday she listed the house with somebody else before he came back.
Maybe it's something like that.
I talked to her and talked to him about the importance of functioning at deep, deep levels
of getting to deep enough levels that we can ventilate impediments like that.
Get back to where we really need to be.
The children are so wonderful, children are absolutely fabulous.
They're created, I mean everybody likes children.
You ever stop and think about that, children are so cute, they're so lovable, everybody
cares about children.
And once the best for children, nobody wants to harm a children, at least nobody in their
right mind wants to harm a child.
Children think they can do anything, you tell them to go do something, okay, we'll try
it.
We'll see it.
They believe what you tell them.
Once they're growing up as teenagers, we really have this desire to make the world a better
place to live.
Look at what happened in the United States in the 1960s when the baby boomers as huge number
of young people.
Coming along says, we've got to make a difference, we've got to end wars, we've got to stop pollution,
we've got to stop hating one another and start loving one another, they understood this.
They had not been taught to hate the way some children are and some cultures.
We had been taught to love and they believed this.
We have that for a period of time, but somehow it seems like we outgrow it, doesn't it?
It's sad.
We get families, we get responsibilities, we get jobs, and suddenly we realize we have
to pay attention to ourselves and take care of our own lives, and before you know it,
it gets out of control.
You wind up with yuppies out there, driving their beamers and doing all, and they forget
about the values that they had when they were younger.
We need to get back to that time before we were contaminated.
Back to that time when we were big enough that we thought we could conquer the whole world.
Back to the time when we really believed that we could make a difference.
That's what you can get back to at those deep levels of mind.
You get there and you begin to ventilate those impediments.
They begin to fade away and it makes a tremendous difference.
If you meditate, there's been research done that if you do nothing more than just meditate.
Just 10 or 20 minutes to three times a day that over a period of years your life will
change dramatically.
When the silver method, we're too impatient for that.
We want to get the changes.
We want to make the changes as quickly as possible, so we have formula type techniques
that we can apply at deep levels and make real, real differences.
Isn't that something that's wonderful?
Can't you imagine doing that?
What you actually learn to do is to convert the so-called subconscious level to what
Jose Silver refers to as an inner conscious level.
You can begin to use the subconscious consciously.
Well every time you practice a deep relaxation, you're saturating all levels.
You're neutralizing negative information that's stored at those deep levels.
These conditioning cycles may sound awfully repetitive to you and awfully boring.
They are designed that way because we want to saturate as many levels as we can, correct
problems on as many levels as we can correct.
Imagine the benefits that you get when you go to deep levels and mentally repeat statements
like every day and every way, I'm getting better, better and better.
My increasing mental faculties are for serving humanity better.
Positive thoughts bring me benefits and advantages I desire.
What about that final statement?
You will continue to strive to take part and constructive and creative activities to
make this a better world to live in so that when we move on, we shall have left behind
a better world for those who follow, and you know the rest of the statement.
Imagine how you have greater understanding, compassion and patience with others, programming
yourself with that every time you go to your level.
It's like you are growing up with these attitudes by going back to those deep levels, those
low brain frequencies, and repeating that.
It's like you had gotten this when you were young, when you were a child.
Imagine how this will change you on the inside so that when you're dealing with people,
when you're working on things, this is what you'll be expressing.
This is what people will sense from you.
Imagine the difference it'll make in your life.
This is another of the benefits of practicing the relaxation exercise, learning to get to
those deep levels.
Not only do you strengthen your immune system and help your body and get your physical life
under control by dealing with the stress, but you also get the rest of your life under
control, too, by going back to these levels and working with it.
Now, there's a few more additional statements that are included in the long relaxation exercise.
Statements about being able to project your mind, wherever there's a problem, becoming
aware of the problem, and being able to correct the problems.
We'll talk more later when we get to the mirror of the mind and some of the other techniques
about what you can do to correct problems from the past, how you can get rid of irrational
fears, get rid of old guilt, eliminate doubt from your life.
You'll learn how to program yourself for greater success in your life today and in
the future.
It all begins by preparing a proper foundation, learning to enter deep, healthy levels of
mind with conscious awareness.
Later, you'll learn to activate your mind to begin to analyze information and correct
and solve the problems that you have in your life at your alpha level.
For now, you want to establish your level.
You want to learn to enter deep levels of mind with conscious awareness, so I'll explain
to you exactly how to proceed.
First of all, remember what we discussed earlier about having a reason for doing this.
You must establish your purpose for practicing the relaxation exercise.
Think about the benefits that you'll receive.
Think about how you will be fulfilling your purpose, your mission, your own earth.
Think about all the people who will benefit when you become a better problem-solver, when
you are helping to correct problems and make the world a better place to live.
The more people who benefit, the more of reasons that you have, the greater your desire, and
you'll be carrying all of that desire into those deep, inner levels with you.
That's very, very powerful.
You've already indicated that you have a great desire for help by committing so much
time and money to this home study course.
That's a good indication of your desire.
Now it's time to build on that desire, to fan the flames of those desires, to build
them up even greater, and to transfer that desire gradually to lower brain frequencies
with conscious awareness.
The lower we take that desire, without altering it, the stronger it gets.
Then you can use all of that energy event desire in your programming.
The desire that you build up when you think of all the reasons you have for practicing
will give you an extra boost, so that you will do whatever is necessary to succeed.
Your mind will know how serious you are, and will take whatever steps need to be taken
to ensure success.
In addition to that, when you carry that sense of purpose to level with you, then you're
taking your desires and your hopes and your dreams to those deep levels with you.
That's going to produce great results.
It's one thing to have hopes and dreams at the outer level, to hold a lot better to
take them to that powerful inner level as well.
When you have all of that desire, deep within to correct problems, to make the world a better
place to live, imagine how people respond to you as you express all of that desire that
you have within yourself.
People are going to want to be around you.
They're going to want to be your friend that want to do business with you.
You'll have great influence with these people.
You'll be able to do terrific work, just like you desire to do.
So first of all, work on your desire.
Review your reasons for wanting to learn the Selva method.
Make sure you have your priorities and your sense of values right.
Then the next step, after you've done that, is to learn the long relaxation exercise so
that you can practice it.
Now you need to practice it correctly to get maximum benefits.
Now here's the way not to do it.
You don't want to just lie back and listen to the long relaxation exercise and leave it
up to me to do all the work.
That won't do you a whole lot of good.
You need to get involved with it yourself to follow the instructions and do it.
You need to do this because nobody else knows how long it takes you to relax.
Nobody else knows how tense you are or where you're tense.
Nobody else knows where you hurt.
Nobody else knows how much you hurt.
Nobody else knows what you need, as well as you know yourself.
When you have enough desire to practice on your own, to do it for yourself, through your
own efforts, then you'll be transferring that desire to those deep levels and your desire
at those deep levels will bring you the results that you're looking for.
That's very important for you to get involved in this whole process of relaxation and going
to level.
It's important that you concentrate your sense of awareness on your scalp, the skin
that covers your head, as you'll be guided to do in this exercise.
It's important for you to detect a fine vibration, a tingling sensation, a feeling of warmth
caused by circulation.
Use your imagination to help you do that.
What would it feel like?
It is important that you then release and completely relax all tensions and ligament
pressures from this part of your head and place it in a deep state of relaxation that will
grow deeper as you continue.
Use your imagination, figure it out.
Get involved.
What would it feel like for your scalp to be totally relaxed that way?
Feel like a wet cloth, a warm wet cloth laying over your skull?
Maybe feel like the roots of the hairs are being washed in the warm, but what would it feel
like?
What would it be like to be completely relaxed?
Get involved in it.
Don't do the same all the way down your body.
Concentrate your sense of awareness on your forehead, the skin that covers your forehead.
You detect a fine vibration, a tingling sensation, a feeling of warmth caused by circulation.
Then release and relax all tensions and ligament pressures from this part of your head completely,
place it in a deep state of relaxation, going deeper and deeper as we continue.
And do the same all the way down your body, your eyes and a tissue surrounding your eyes.
Your face, the skin covering your cheeks.
The throat, within the throat area, your shoulders.
Feel your clothing and contact with your shoulders.
Feel the skin and the vibration of the skin covering your shoulders.
And release and relax all tensions and ligament pressures.
Place your shoulders in a deep state of relaxation, going deeper and deeper as we continue.
Go into your chest and do the same.
Within the chest area, relax all organs, relax all glands, relax all tissues, including
the cells themselves, and cause them to function in a rhythmic and healthy manner.
How do you do that?
Same as you relax the rest of your body.
Desire to happen.
Imagine it happening.
Take it for granted it's happening.
Same with your abdomen, within the abdominal area, your thighs, the bones within the thighs,
your knees, your calves, your feet, your toes, the soles of your feet, the heels of your
feet.
Relax your body like that.
One will come back up the body and become so relaxed that you lose all sense of sensation
in your body.
Cause your feet to feel as though they do not belong to your body.
Cause your feet and ankles and calves, knees and thighs and waist and shoulders and arms
and hands to feel as though they do not belong to your body.
Get involved and cause it to happen.
Now, after we relax physically, then we'll relax mentally.
To do that, by visualizing and recalling tranquil and passive scenes, they at the beach may
be a tranquil and passive scene for you or a day out fishing or walk through the woods
on a beautiful summer day.
The more you practice, the easier it will be to do it.
Now, you might want to listen to the long relaxation exercise, listen to it at bay to first
if you want to.
That way you'll know everything that's on it so there will not be any surprises that
would interfere with your relaxation.
Then go to level with it, listen to my voice to guide you to level to do the deep relaxation.
That will give you the feeling for it.
Now, the first couple of times you practice a exercise, do it in a sitting position.
Make yourself comfortable and let your body do what it needs to do to relax.
Once you've learned to relax in a sitting position, then if you want to find a more comfortable
position, to stretch out in a nice reclining chair, for instance, then do so.
While practicing in a seated position, remember to roll your head around from time to time
so that your neck won't get stiff.
Now, I'm not going to be here with you physically.
I wish I could be.
If I were here with you physically, I would be projecting to you.
I would be doing the relaxation with you and this would help your body to relax, but
I won't be there.
What I want you to do is probably even better than having me there with you to do it totally
on your own.
You want to get completely involved and you do that by doing it strictly on your own.
So after you've learned the sequence, after you've learned what to do, to concentrate
your sense of awareness, to detect a fine vibration, a tingling sensation, a feeling of warmth,
all of those things, once you've learned how to do that for all the body parts, then
practice on your own by yourself.
No voice to guide you, no background sounds, you practice going through that relaxation.
From head to toes, take whatever time you need to get yourself completely relaxed.
Stay awake, stay conscious.
If you fall asleep, make yourself less comfortable.
Some people have a tendency to fall asleep.
They may have to work a little bit harder to learn how to do this.
You do whatever is necessary for you to be successful with it.
Find a less comfortable chair to sit in maybe.
If you can kick back on a bed and relax and just stretch out there and do this without
falling asleep, that's great.
Get as relaxed as you can, but without falling asleep, staying awake.
Do it on your own.
No background sounds, no alpha sounds, just keep it nice and quiet, definitely no music.
The frequency of music fluctuates up and down.
That will not help your brain stay at one steady frequency, which is what you're looking
for.
Music is good for beta physical type relaxation, for left brain relaxation.
We want right brain relaxation to lower brain frequency to alpha, or below.
The ideal thing is to get even lower than the alpha frequency, because see, you want
to be able to do your programming at 10 cycles per second.
When you become mentally active, begin to correct problems, analyze information.
The brain will be at least 10 cycles per second.
It's not going to do that lower than 10.
So if you just learn to relax a little bit and just barely get into the alpha level,
and then become mentally active, it can be kind of hard to keep the brain at that 10
cycles.
But if you practice relaxing, you practice this long relaxation exercise several times,
and you learn to get very deeply relaxed, you can be assured that your brain frequency
is lower than 10 cycles.
So then when you become mentally active and begin to use the formula type techniques,
begin to analyze information and make decisions and solve problems at your level, the brain
and then we'll find it easy to stay at the alpha level.
It may have to speed up a little bit to get to 10 cycles.
This is great.
This is why you want to practice deepening so much that you go beyond 10.
So that when you come back to 10, it'll be easy to stay there and to do your programming.
Now, some people have not relaxed this deeply in a long, long time, so it may feel different
to you.
It may feel a little bit strange.
This is okay.
Sometimes we get so relaxed that we feel like
the body just can't even move anymore or we feel like it's floating or something.
That's great.
You're not floating.
You just relaxed.
But do remember, especially when doing the deep relaxation, if you feel uncomfortable
for any reason, if you feel you need to open your eyes, then open your eyes immediately.
Focus your eyes.
Relax.
Tell yourself mentally or verbally to relax that everything's okay.
Then back up, start at the beginning and do it again.
At these deep levels, we go back to our natural functions.
Your body begins to normalize and function in a natural, healthy manner.
We awaken intuition at these levels and our creativity also.
Go at your own pace.
Nobody knows better than you, the best way for you to proceed.
Make sure that you're comfortable with the experience.
Continue practicing until you learn how to enter deep, healthy levels of mind, quickly
and easily.
If you have any questions about your experience, contact your local Silvan Method lecturer.
Or contact me here at Avelis Headquarters.
We all want to help you succeed.
It's important for you to have a support system.
Don't try to do it all alone.
Get involved.
Get some other people involved with you.
Get involved with your local lecturer.
Call on us if you need to.
If there's not a lecturer somewhere nearby you, call on us here at Headquarters.
We will work with you.
Share this course with other people and get them involved in it too.
You can help one another.
It really pays to have a support system.
When you've been to level with your local lecturer, and your local lecturer has been
to level with you, and other classmates and other family members, and you've all been
to level together, you develop a tremendous intimacy.
You really learn a great deal about one another.
This allows us to help each other in ways that you just can't even imagine right now.
You recommend that you continue to practice the long relaxation exercise at least once
a week for the first three months.
In fact, a lot of us just continue to practice it at least once a week forever.
It's good to be able to establish that level.
If you do not continue to practice on a regular basis, then your level starts surfacing.
Practice helps to ensure that when you go to your level, you'll stay there.
I would say, sovises is not that hard to learn to get to level.
You've got to be sure you're staying there when you become mentally active, so practicing
the deep relaxation, going past ten cycles will make it easier to stay at ten when you're
doing your programming.
You know the most important time to practice Juan Silva, I hope they saw his brother Juan,
who was involved with him in a lot of the research, and who was a foreign director for about
twenty years.
Director of foreign countries took this course all over the world.
Juan Silva points out that the most important time to practice is when you don't need to.
It's much easier to practice when there's no stress, when there's no big problem that
has to be solved.
You practice, you go to those deep levels, remember to take your purpose with you when
you go to these deep levels.
You don't want to do it just because he says to or Juan says to or Jose Silva says to.
You want to do it because you're preparing a better vehicle, because you'll be able
to help correct problems because you'll reach your goal, you'll help to make this planet
a better place to live.
Make sure you've got your reasons clear in your mind, and you do this practice.
Then later when there's an emergency situation and you have to go to your level, it will
be easy to do because you're so familiar with it.
It is now your choice.
You can choose to be as successful as you want to be.
It's a simple choice, just one choice at a time is all it takes.
Take a choice to dedicate 15 minutes each day to practice entering your level.
We say that five minutes is good, 10 minutes is very good, and 15 minutes is excellent.
To practice once a day is good, twice a day is very good, three times a day is excellent.
The best time to practice is in the morning when you first wake up, you're just coming
out of alpha, and you have a tendency to wake up.
So you'll be less likely to fall back asleep, stay in bed at least five minutes practicing.
The second best time to practice is at night when you're ready to go to sleep.
You're ready to go into alpha, it will be easy to get to alpha.
It won't be quite as easy to stay awake, perhaps, as in the morning, but it's still a great
time.
The third best time to practice is at noon after lunch.
After we eat a big meal, the body feels relaxed anyway.
That's part of the process, the physiological process, the endorphins in the brain, and
so forth, to slow the body down so that we'll have time to digest the food.
It's another good time to take advantage of relaxing into the alpha level.
If you're working with a health problem or a very serious situation, practice for 15
minutes, three times a day.
No need to do more than that.
You need to spend time at level, you also need the time at beta.
So 15 minutes, three times a day, turns out to be ideal when you're working on major
projects.
Now this long relaxation exercise lasts for about 30 minutes.
Like I said, you can listen to it ahead of time if you like, so that you know everything
it's included on it.
Then when you have a half an hour, when you will not be disturbed, make yourself comfortable
and practice the long relaxation exercise.
Thank you.
