This is the long relaxation exercise of the silver method. In the background you will
hear the gentle tapping of the alpha sound. This sound will help your brain adjust to
the alpha rhythm. Remember that if at any time you feel uncomfortable, readjust your
position to make yourself more comfortable. If you feel you must open your eyes for any
reason that open your eyes and make yourself comfortable. If you open your eyes, then
start again at the beginning. Any time that you desire to relax, mentally or verbally
repeat the word, relax, and you will relax physically and mentally. This mind-training
exercise is adapted from one originally copyrighted by Jose Silva, Dorado, Texas, in 1969
after 25 years of research. New material is copyright 1996 by Jose Silva. Reproduction
for redistribution is strictly prohibited. Now prepare for this mind-training exercise by
finding a comfortable sitting position. We will start this exercise with the 3-1 method.
In a comfortable seated position, close your eyes, take a deep breath, and while exhaling
mentally repeat and visualize the number 3 times. Whenever you close your eyes to function
at deeper levels of mind, occasionally tell yourself mentally, if someone calls me or
in case of danger or an emergency, I will open my eyes immediately and be wide awake,
feeling fine, and in perfect health. To enter the physical relaxation level 3,
mentally repeat and visualize the number 3 several times, and you are at level 3.
Level 3 is for physical relaxation to learn to relax from head to toes in a matter of
seconds. To help you learn to relax physically at level 3, I am going to direct your attention
to different parts of your body. Concentrate your sense of awareness on your scalp, the
skin that covers your head. You will detect a fine vibration, a tingling sensation, a feeling
of warmth caused by circulation. Now release and completely relax all tensions and
ligament pressures from this part of your head, and place it in a deep state of relaxation
that will grow deeper as we continue. Concentrate your sense of awareness on your
scalp, the skin that covers your forehead. You will detect a fine vibration, a tingling
sensation, a feeling of warmth caused by circulation. Now release and completely relax all tensions
and ligament pressures from this part of your head, and place it in a deep state of relaxation
that will grow deeper as we continue. Concentrate your sense of awareness on your eyelids
and the tissues surrounding your eyes. You will detect a fine vibration, a tingling sensation,
a feeling of warmth caused by circulation. Now release and completely relax all tensions
and ligament pressures from this part of your head, and place it in a deep state of relaxation
that will grow deeper as we continue. Concentrate your sense of awareness on your face,
the skin covering your cheeks. You will detect a fine vibration, a tingling sensation,
a feeling of warmth caused by circulation. Now release and completely relax all tensions
and ligament pressures from this part of your head, and place it in a deep state of relaxation
that will grow deeper as we continue. Concentrate on the outer portion of your throat,
the skin covering your throat area. You will detect a fine vibration, a tingling sensation,
a feeling of warmth caused by circulation. Now release and completely relax all tensions
and ligament pressures from this part of your body, and place it in a deep state of relaxation
that will grow deeper as we continue. Concentrate within the throat area and relax all tensions
and ligament pressures from this part of your body, and place it in a deep state of relaxation
going deeper and deeper every time. Concentrate on your shoulders, feel your clothing
and contact with your body. Feel the skin and the vibration of the skin covering this
part of your body, relax all tensions and ligament pressures and place your shoulders
in a deep state of relaxation going deeper and deeper every time. Concentrate on your chest,
feel your clothing and contact with this part of your body. Feel the skin and the vibration of your
skin covering your chest. Relax all tensions and ligament pressures and place your chest
in a deep state of relaxation going deeper and deeper every time. Concentrate within the chest area,
relax all organs, relax all glands, relax all tissues including the cells themselves
and cause them to function in a rhythmic healthy manner. Concentrate on your abdomen,
feel the clothing and contact with this part of your body. Feel the skin and the vibration of your
skin covering your abdomen. Relax all tensions and ligament pressures and place your
abdomen in a deep state of relaxation going deeper and deeper every time. Concentrate within the
abdominal area, relax all organs, relax all glands, relax all tissues including the cells
themselves and cause them to function in a rhythmic healthy manner. Concentrate on your thighs,
feel your clothing and contact with this part of your body. Feel the skin and the vibration of
your skin covering your thighs. Relax all tensions and ligament pressures and place your
thighs in a deep state of relaxation going deeper and deeper every time.
Since the vibrations at the bones within the thighs by now these vibrations should be easily detectable.
Concentrate on your knees, feel the skin and the vibration of your skin covering the knees.
Relax all tensions and ligament pressures and place your knees in a deep state of relaxation going
deeper and deeper every time. Concentrate on your calves, feel the skin and the vibration of your
skin covering your calves. Relax all tensions and ligament pressures and place these parts of your
body in a deep state of relaxation going deeper and deeper every time.
To enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, concentrate on your toes, enter a deeper, healthier
level of mind. To enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, concentrate on the
soles of your feet, enter a deeper, healthier level of mind. To enter a deeper, healthier
level of mind, concentrate on the heels of your feet, enter a deeper, healthier level of mind.
Now, cause your feet to feel as though they do not belong to your body.
Feel your feet as though they do not belong to your body.
Your feet feel as though they do not belong to your body.
Your feet, ankles, calves and knees feel as though they do not belong to your body.
Your feet, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, waist, shoulders, arms and hands feel as though they do not belong to your body.
You are now at a deeper, healthier level of mind, deeper than before.
This is your physical relaxation level 3. Whenever you mentally repeat and visualize the number
3, your body will relax as completely as you are now and more so every time you practice.
To enter the mental relaxation level 2, mentally repeat and visualize the number 2 several times and you are at level 2, a deeper
level than 3.
Level 2 is for mental relaxation where noises will not distract you.
Instead, noises will help you to relax mentally more and more.
To help you learn to relax mentally at level 2, I am going to call your attention to different passive scenes.
Visualizing any scene that makes you tranquil and passive will help you relax mentally.
You are being at the beach on a nice summer day may be a tranquil and passive scene for you.
A day outfishing may be a tranquil and passive scene for you.
A tranquil and passive scene for you may be a walk through the woods on a beautiful summer day when the breeze is just right.
Where there are tall shade trees, beautiful flowers, a very blue sky, an occasional white cloud, birds singing in the distance.
Even squirrels playing on the tree limbs hear birds singing in the distance.
This is mental relaxation level 2 where noises will not distract you.
To enhance mental relaxation at level 2, practice visualizing tranquil and passive scenes.
To enter the basic plane level 1, mentally repeat and visualize the number 1 several times.
You are now at level 1, the basic plane level that you are learning to use for a purpose, any purpose you desire.
To enter deeper, healthier levels of mind, practice with the countdown deepening exercises.
To deepen count downward from 25 to 1, or from 50 to 1, or from 100 to 1.
When you reach the count of 1, you will have reached a deeper, healthier level of mind, deeper than before.
You will always have full control and complete dominion over your faculties and senses at all levels of the mind, including the outer conscious level.
The first time to practice the countdown deepening exercises is in the morning when you wake up.
Remain in bed at least 5 minutes, practicing the countdown deepening exercises.
The second best time to practice is at night when you are ready to retire.
The third best time to practice is at noon after lunch.
5 minutes of practice is good, 10 minutes is very good, 15 minutes is excellent.
To practice once a day is good, 2 times a day is very good, and 3 times a day is excellent.
If you have a health problem, practice for 15 minutes, 3 times a day.
To come out of any level of the mind, count to yourself mentally from 1 to 5, and tell yourself that at the count of 5, you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before.
Then proceed to count slowly from 1 to 2, then to 3, and at the count of 3, mentally remind yourself that at the count of 5, you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before.
Proceed to count slowly to 4, then to 5, at the count of 5 and with your eyes open, mentally tell yourself, I am wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before, and this is so.
To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, I am going to count from 10 to 1.
On each descending number, you will feel yourself going deeper, and you will enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, 10, 9, feel going deeper, 8, 7, 6, deeper and deeper, 5, 4, 3, deeper and deeper, 2, 1.
You are now at a deeper, healthier level of mind, deeper than before.
You may enter a deeper, healthier level of mind by simply relaxing your eyelids, relax your eyelids, feel how relaxed they are,
allow this feeling of relaxation to flow slowly downward throughout your body, all the way down to your toes.
It is a wonderful feeling to be deeply relaxed, a very healthy state of being.
To help you enter a deeper, healthier level of mind, I am going to count from 1 to 3.
At that moment, you will project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation.
I will then stop talking to you, and when you next hear my voice, one hour of time will have a lapse at this level of mind.
My voice will not startle you, it will take a deep breath, relax and go deeper.
1.
2.
3.
Project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation until you hear my voice again, relax.
4.
Project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation until you hear my voice again, relax.
1.
Project yourself mentally to your ideal place of relaxation until you hear my voice again, relax.
2.
Relax.
3.
Take a deep breath and as you exhale, relax and go deeper.
4.
You will continue to listen to my voice.
You will continue to follow the instructions at this level of the mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level.
This is for your benefit, you desire it and it is so.
Whenever you mentally or verbally mention the word, relax.
All unnecessary movements and activities of your body, brain and mind will cease immediately and you will become completely passive and relaxed physically and mentally.
I may bring you out of this level or a deeper level than this by counting to you from 1 to 5.
At the count of 5, your eyes will open, you will be wide awake feeling fine and in perfect health.
The difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of their minds and use them in a special manner.
You are now learning to use more of your mind and to use it in a special manner.
The following are beneficial statements that you may occasionally repeat while at these levels of the mind, repeat mentally after me.
My increasing mental faculties are for serving humanity better.
Every day and every way, I am getting better, better and better.
Positive thoughts bring me benefits and advantages.
I desire.
I have full control and complete dominion over my sensing faculties, at this level of the mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level.
And this is so.
The following preventive statements are for your better health.
Keep in mind that from now on, I will occasionally be speaking in your place.
I will never learn to develop physically or mentally, mental disorders, nor psychosomatic or functional ailments or diseases.
I will never learn to develop physically or mentally, a dependence on drugs or alcohol.
Negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me at any level of the mind.
I will always maintain a perfectly healthy body and mind.
Mental projection statements for success.
I am now learning to attune my intelligence by developing my sensing faculties and to project them to any problem area.
So I have to become aware of any abnormalities, if this is necessary and beneficial for humanity.
I am now learning to apply corrective measures and to correct any abnormality I detect.
Negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over me at any level of the mind.
In your next session, we will impress in program three formula type techniques for your use.
The first formula will be sleep control to help you enter normal, natural, physiologic sleep, anytime, anywhere without the use of drugs.
The second formula will be to awake control for awakening without an alarm clock.
This helps in your development of mind control.
You can also learn to use awake control to remain awake longer without the use of drugs.
In a later session, you will learn to use dream control and headache control without the use of drugs.
For the application of controls in health areas consult your doctor and work under health supervision.
You will enter the next session with the use of the three to one method.
You will enter a deeper, healthier level of mind faster and easier than this time.
You will start the next session in a comfortable position with your eyes closed.
You will take a deep breath and while exhaling, you will mentally repeat and visualize the number three times.
You will take another deep breath and while exhaling, you will mentally repeat and visualize the number two three times.
And you will take another deep breath and while exhaling, you will mentally repeat and visualize the number one three times.
And you will be at level one, the basic plane level that you are learning to use for a purpose, any purpose you desire.
Every time you function at these levels of the mind you will receive beneficial effects physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help yourself physically and mentally.
You may use these levels of the mind to help your loved ones physically and mentally,
you may use these levels of the mind to help any human being who needs help physically and mentally.
You will never use these levels of the mind to harm any human being.
If this be your intention, you will not be able to function within these levels of the mind.
You will always use these levels of the mind in a constructive creative manner,
all that is good, honest, pure, clean, and positive, and this is so.
You will continue to strive to take part in constructive and creative activities
to make this a better world to live in so that when we move on,
we shall have left behind a better world for those who follow.
You will consider the whole of humanity depending on their ages, as fathers or mothers,
brothers or sisters, sons or daughters.
You are a superior human being.
You have greater understanding, compassion, and patience with others.
In a moment, I am going to count from one to five, and at that moment,
you will open your eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine, and in perfect health,
feeling better than before.
You will have no ill-effects whatsoever in your head, no headache,
no ill-effects whatsoever in your hearing, no buzzing in your ears,
no ill-effects whatsoever in your vision and eyesight,
vision, eyesight, and hearing improve every time you function at these levels of mind.
One, two, coming out slowly now.
Three, the count of five, you will open your eyes, be wide awake,
feeling fine and in perfect health, feeling better than before,
feeling the way you feel when you have slept the right amount of revitalizing,
refreshing, relaxing, healthy, wonderful sleep.
Four, five, eyes open, wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health,
feeling better than before.
This concludes the long relaxation exercise for the silver method.
Thank you.
