00:10	SPEAKER_01:	Have you ever had one of those nights when it's really hard for you to get to sleep? Maybe you had a big day, something wonderful happened to you, and you're still all excited about it. Or maybe you have a big day coming up tomorrow, and you're all excited about your opportunities. At any rate, you need a good night's sleep so that you'll be fresh tomorrow to take advantage of the opportunities that await you. You need to be able to manage your energy so that you can achieve your goals. This is part of what we're talking about when we talk about choosing success. A lot of people seem to be like a little girl who told her daddy, she told him, mother sure doesn't know much about little girls. He asked her, why is that? Little girl answered, she said, because she makes me go to bed when I'm not sleepy, and she makes me get up when I am.

00:59	SPEAKER_01:	You know, sometimes what keeps people awake is their problems. They worry about the problems that they face during the day, whether they solved them correctly, whatever's left over, did they do wrong? Are they going to be okay? They're going to be okay. They're going to be be in trouble for it? Is it going to create more problems in the future? Or are they worried about the problems that they have to deal with tomorrow and they have to go out and face them? Are they going to be able to handle them okay? All that kind of worry makes it really difficult to get to sleep. And you know what? The same thing makes it difficult to get up in the morning because then in the morning when it's time to get up, it's time to go deal with those problems. So we say, oh, I'm sleepy. I don't want to get up yet. Well, as we continue on through this Silva Method Choose Success course, you'll be learning a lot of techniques to help you deal with the problems in your life, how to convert problems into projects. We all have problems to solve. That's part of life. In fact, that's probably why we were sent here, is to correct problems and to improve living conditions on the planet. So this is a problem-solving course that we have. Not a course to show you how to avoid problems, but a course to show you how to avoid problems, but how to meet the challenges of life and succeed with them and get the satisfaction that comes with that. If you don't have any way to deal with the problems, that's very stressful and frustrating. But when you do have a way to deal with them, then they become projects and they're exciting to work on then. If you stop and think about it, life is always filled with problems. That's what drama and literature are all about. Think about the books that you read, the TV shows that you watch, the movies that you go to. They're always about somebody trying to solve a problem. That's what drama and literature are all about. Trying to overcome challenges that they face in their life. That's what makes life really interesting. We don't want to avoid them. We want to deal with them. You want to have choices available to you so that you have ways of dealing with the problems, turning them into projects, and successfully completing them, and learning in the process and feeling great all the way through. Well, for right now, we're going to learn a formula-type technique, one of these self-management techniques, that will help you to get a good night's sleep every night. So that you'll be fresh and ready to deal with the problems and the opportunities of each and every day. No matter what may be on your mind, no matter how excited you may be, or even worried if that happens, I'll guarantee you, this technique is so boring that it'll put you to sleep. And it'll do it quickly, too. When you feel tired and run down, stressed out, and you're not as alert as you should be, you limit your options. It's more difficult to make good decisions and to choose the correct options that will bring you more success. Some people are so tired and frustrated that the best they can do is just to hope that they don't make too many mistakes during the day. That's not a very good way to go through life. That's not the way to really get ahead. If you want to choose success, you'll be much better off with an attitude that you're going to take advantage of the opportunities that the day offers you, and go out and do something really worthwhile. Now, some people just take sleeping pills to get to sleep at night, and then take amphetamines to wake up in the morning. Or they do what they're supposed to do. That's what some of us have done. I used to do in the past, drink themselves into an alcoholic stupor at night, and then fill themselves, fill their system with caffeine in the morning, you know, coffee. This certainly isn't good for you. Why? Because every time you use drugs, any drugs, whatever they are, the drugs cause side effects. Sometimes the side effects are worse than the conditions that you're trying to cure. So we try to stay away from drugs as much as we can. The Silva Method sleep control technique will take care of the sleep problem. Without having to resort to drugs. You don't want to get up in the morning feeling drugged. That makes it more difficult to deal with the problems. And the amphetamines, the artificial high, the problem is, there's always a down. You always have to come down sooner or later. Drugs alter the functioning of your central nervous system, so it doesn't work the way that nature intended. And whenever we're doing that, we're just adding problems for ourselves. And there's really no point in doing that if we can possibly help it. In this next conditioning cycle, we'll program three formula-type techniques for your benefit. The first formula will help you get to sleep naturally without drugs. The second formula is for waking up without clocks whenever you desire, feeling refreshed and energized to meet the day. And the third technique is to help you stay refreshed and alert when you need to, such as when you're driving home late at night. Now these are actual formulas. They're like chemical formulas. They're like recipes. Follow them exactly the way they're written. Exactly the way you will impress them at your level, and exactly the way they're written in your manual. Jose Silva spent 22 years working out the exact wording. He worked with thousands of people. So use them the way they are. Generally, if you have questions about the techniques, if you study the formula, you'll find the answer in the wording of the formula. Now if you want to, once you've had success with the techniques, if you want to try experimenting a little bit to change it and see if it works better, okay. But don't do that until after you've had success using the formula. So if you've had success with the techniques, if you want to try experimenting a little bit to change it and see if it works better, okay. But don't do that until you've had success using the techniques. Also, please remember to use our standard method of entering level. You may have learned some other way of relaxing, or you may have something that you like to do to relax, or you might have learned some other meditation system. However, we don't know what level those will take you to. These formulas are designed to be effective and to work at a very specific level. So use our method of entering the alpha level, and that way you'll know exactly what to expect. Now in this conditioning and the ones that follow, I'll guide you to level. I'll guide you to level with the three-to-one method. What you'll do is take a deep breath, and while exhaling, mentally repeat and visualize the number three, three times. take another deep breath, and while exhaling, mentally repeat and visualize the number two, three times. And take another deep breath and mentally repeat and visualize the number one, three times. This will help you to relax your body and your mind and to enter the alpha level. Mr. Silva suggests that an easy way to do it is to imagine that you're looking at the numbers flashing on a green neon sign. That's kind of an easy way to do it. So do whatever you're most comfortable with. Once you get to level, we'll go through all the standard deepening exercises. We won't do the whole body relaxation, but we'll include the regular 10 to 1 countdown to relax the eyelids, a project to the ideal place of relaxation. We'll cover the genius statements, the rapport statements, the beneficial statements, preventive statements, and so on. Then we'll impress the new information, the three formula type techniques. First will be the sleep control to help you get to sleep and have a good night's sleep, natural physiologic sleep without the use of drugs. Every night, we go through several sleep and dream cycles. Each one lasts about 90 minutes. Now, researchers tell us that everybody dreams, though not everybody remembers their dreams. So in the next conditioning, we'll talk about how you can remember the dreams and use them to help you solve problems. The sleep and dream cycles last about 90 minutes. So you can tell by how long you sleep at night, approximately how many sleep and dream cycles you go through. Four, five, six, whatever it may be. The first sleep and dream cycle we go through, we go very deep, very quickly, all the way to delta. The only way to get to the delta frequencies is through natural sleep. You can't be knocked unconscious into delta. You can't be hypnotized into delta. Drugs won't take you into delta. That's another disadvantage of taking drugs. If you use drugs to get to sleep, you might get you into theta and kind of keep you in theta most of the night instead of cycling into delta back up into alpha, high alpha to have a little dream or a longer dream. So you want to go through those natural sleep and dream cycles. The first sleep cycle, you go very deep and you stay at those very, very deep levels for most of that 90 minute sleep cycle. Towards the end, you'll come up and have a little short dream at the end of it. The next sleep cycle, you don't go quite as deep and you have a longer time for a dream. Finally, by the morning, by the last sleep cycle that you have, sleep and dream cycle, you probably don't even get into delta at all. And most of that time would be taken up with dreams. So that's just a little bit of physiology so that you'll understand a little bit about that if you're interested. There are some excellent books available if you want to go into it further. The main thing we want, though, is to use a technique to help us get to sleep without the use of drugs anytime, anywhere. When we change to daylight savings time or back to standard time or flying and you have some jet lag, anytime you may need it, this is an excellent technique to use. Let me run through how it works with you. And in the conditioning cycle, you'll get to kind of play like and practice and pretend that you're actually using it. You won't go to sleep doing it because that's not your intent to go to sleep, but you'll get a chance to actually pretend that you're using it in this conditioning cycle. Here's how we do it. This is the way it works. When you want to use the sleep control, you're in bed, ready to go to sleep. You do any other programming that you want to do first because once you use this, you will go to sleep. So you do any other programming that you have. Then you visualize a chalkboard. You have chalk in one hand and an eraser in the other. Then you mentally draw a big circle on the chalkboard. Make it a big one. Then write a big X within the circle, a big X going right from edge to edge of the circle. Then you take the eraser and you erase the X from within the circle, starting at the center, and erasing towards the inner edges of the circle, being careful not to erase the circle in the least. Give you enough to do so that you won't be worried about your problems, okay? A little bit of busy work there, so pay attention. Make sure you do it right. Then on the board to the right and outside of the circle, write the word deeper. Every time you write the word deeper, you will enter a deeper, healthier level of mind in the direction of normal, natural, healthy sleep. Then you go back to the circle and inside the circle, write a big number 100. Then you erase the number 100 from within the circle, starting at the center, erasing towards the inner edges of the circle, being careful not to erase the circle in the least. After you've erased the number 100 completely, then to the right and outside of the circle, go over the word deeper. Every time you go over the word deeper in this manner, you will enter a deeper, healthier level of mind in the direction of normal, natural, healthy sleep. Then you go back and write a big number 99 in the circle. Erase it in the same manner. Go over the word deeper. Then you go back and write number 98. Erase that in the same manner. Go over the word deeper. See what we're doing? You see some familiar things here? Remember the countdowns that we do to enter deeper levels of mind and lower brain frequencies? Remember how we program the word deeper over and over for lower frequencies and deeper levels of mind? These are already cues to help you go in the direction of sleep. So that's what you'll be doing. Now, this can be a very valuable technique. You imagine an executive earning a lot of money who has insomnia and isn't really alert the next day, won't make as good of decisions. So if you really want to be able to choose success for yourself, make the best possible decisions, you want to get a good night's sleep. This is a great way to do it. Do follow the formula exactly. Mr. Silva tells a story about a man in Corpus Christi, Texas, a man who was, I believe he was in his 60s, and took the... And he had not had a normal night's sleep for 22 years. He'd been taking drugs for 22 years. The problem was regulating how much to use of the drugs. So much drug to get him to sleep, so much drugs to wake him up in the morning. All of that was worked out very carefully. He took the formula, went home, tried it, and it didn't work for him. Came back and told Mr. Silva, it's not working. Mr. Silva says, tell me exactly what you did. The man says, I drew the circle, I drew the X, I erased the X, I wrote the word deeper. Went back to the circle and wrote 100, and I erased the 100, then I wrote a 99, and I erased the 99, and I 98, and I erased the 98, and it didn't work. Mr. Silva says, wait a minute, you left out a step. Oh, what was that? He says, each time after you've erased the number, you should go over the word deeper. Oh, he says, you're right, I didn't do that. He says, I guess I need to do that. So he went back, and he did that. Then he came back to class. The next time Mr. Silva was in town, he came back to class. He says, how's it working for you? He says, well, let me tell you something. That first night, I counted from 100 to 1, and nothing happened. I didn't go to sleep. But you told me to stick with it, to be serious. My mind will give me the results when I'm serious. So I went from 100 to 1 again. And then I started from 100 to 1 again, and about halfway, somewhere about halfway through, I don't know quite where, I fell asleep. He said, that's the first time in 22 years I've been to sleep without drugs. Mr. Silva says, well, what happened after that? Mr. Silva says, well, what happened after that? He says, well, after that, I fell asleep. He said, well, the next night, I only had to go from 100 to 1 once, and I went to sleep. And then the next night, I only had to go about halfway. He says, now, all I do is draw the circle, and I'm out just like that. He said, you know, the best thing about it all is I wake up in the morning now, and I hear birds singing. I didn't know birds sang in the morning. This man had been on drugs for so long, such high dosages, he didn't even know that birds sang in the morning. So it's tremendous results. Mr. Silva said that was one of his, that was the toughest case, that he ever had. So you stick with it, and it will work for you. The second formula that we'll impress is to awake control, to learn to wake up without an alarm clock. Now, this is an outstanding self-management technique. It's also more than that. It's also a communications technique. You're learning mind-body communications here. It works like this. Let me give you the formula for it, and then we'll talk about it just a little bit. What you do, you're in bed, you're ready to go to sleep. So before you do the sleep control, you want to set your mental alarm clock, so to speak. So you'll tell yourself, you'll visualize a clock, and you'll imagine, you'll see what time it is on the clock. If you're going to bed, say at 11 o'clock at night, then you visualize a clock set at 11 o'clock. Now, Mr. Silva wrote this back in the 1960s when we didn't have digital clocks. So we imagine a clock with hands on it, and imagine moving the hands of the clock around the clock and resetting them for the time that you want to wake up, say 7.30, you want to wake up. So you move the clock around the clock, and you're in bed, and you're in bed, and you're in bed, and you're in bed. So you move the hands to 7.30, or whatever time you choose to wake up, and mentally say to yourself, this is a time I want to awaken, and this is a time I'm going to awaken. Then you go ahead, stay at your level, and go to sleep. You will wake up at your assigned time, feeling wide awake, fine, and in perfect health. Now, if there's danger, if there's some need that you need to get up earlier, of course, you'll do that too, just like you would normally. Now, what this really is, Mr. Silva says, imagine if you had a duplicate of your body. We have the body in the physical dimension. Imagine if there's a duplicate of you in a spiritual dimension. We could refer to the physical body as biological intelligence, and the duplicate in the subjective dimension as human intelligence. Now, human intelligence, your mind, so to speak, never needs to sleep. It's not physical, so it doesn't need sleep, because it's not a physical thing. It can somehow keep time. Mr. Silva learned about this in hypnosis when he found that you could hypnotize a person with hypnosis, and you could hypnotize a person and tell them that in 4,862 seconds, your nose is going to itch, and you're going to want to scratch it. And then you figure out what time that would be, and you watch, and sure enough, when that time comes, a person will scratch your nose. It's like your mind is able to keep track of things for you without your conscious involvement in it. So your mind can wake up your body at the time that you desire. Imagine how valuable this can be to you. Develop this technique, and then expand on it. What Mr. Silva is really doing here is, giving us a technique for using our mind to help us to do the right thing at the right time. You know, they talk about people who are so lucky because they happen to be in the right place at the right time. Wow, here's a way to begin to use your mind to cause that to happen for you. A little later, when we get to the three fingers technique and test-taking procedures, we'll learn how to say the right thing at the right time, too. Do you think tools like this will be valuable in helping you to choose success? This is a marvelous technique. We really encourage you to practice it. When's the best time to practice it? Practice it sometime when there's not too much pressure on you. If there's a lot of pressure where you have to get up and be to work on time, you may be a little bit nervous with it. It may make it a little bit more difficult to work with this technique. So you want to develop your confidence. So it's appropriate then to solve the problem of developing confidence in the technique by programming yourself to wake up maybe on a Saturday so that if you oversleep for an hour, it's not going to be a disaster. Use a technique with real desire and real expectation that you're going to be able to do it. And if you don't, you're going to be able to do it. And if you don't, you're going to do it. Think of the reasons that you want to do this and that you want to get this technique to work. The more reasons that you have, the more likely the technique will work for you. So go to your level. Think about all the benefits of this technique, how it will help you and others to help your family, your loved ones, people that you work with, other people that you're involved with to be able to do the right thing at the right time. And then program yourself to wake up, practice, and you will get results from it.

18:50	SPEAKER_01:	third technique that we're going to be learning is for remaining awake longer when you happen to be tired. It's like when you're driving late at night. This is kind of a model for whatever basic programming techniques we'll be learning all the way through the course. It works like this. Let's say you're driving and it's late at night and you're beginning to feel kind of drowsy and you pull over to the side of the road, stop your motor, enter level one with the three-to-one method. Now always the first thing we do in any of our techniques is we have to know what the problem is that we want to solve. So you say to yourself mentally at your level, I am drowsy and sleepy. I don't want to be drowsy and sleepy. That's your goal, right? I want to be wide awake feeling fine and in perfect health. So that's the way we get it started. But you state the problem and you state your goal. That's the first two steps that you take. Then you make a plan. What's your plan for correcting the problem? Say in a moment, I'm going to count from one to ten. I'm going to count from one to five. At the count of five, I will open my eyes, be wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health. I won't be drowsy and sleepy. I will be wide awake. Again, that sounds kind of familiar too, doesn't it? Like we're doing in our conditioning cycles. Then the fourth step is you work your plan. You count slowly, one, two, three. And at the count of three, remind yourself that at the count of five, I'll be wide awake, eyes open, wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health. go ahead and count to five. At the count of five, open your eyes. Tell yourself, I am wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health. Now here's a clue. Do it. Feel that way. Don't be checking around to say, gee, do I feel any better or not? Because you probably won't if you do that. Just say, I feel better. Pretend that you do. Tell yourself that you do and make it happen. This is the kind of course where we're able to make things happen. The course doesn't do it for you. It's a tool that you can use. So this is a tool that you can use so that you can feel refreshed and wide awake. That's the kind of thing to do. Now you can do the same thing with any other kind of problems that you may have. Let's say you have trouble concentrating at your level. Anything like that ever happen? Like an ideal place of relaxation? Maybe you have thoughts intrude, things that you're going to be doing during the day and you start thinking about those. If there's too much of that, use your level to correct it. Say, when I'm relaxing, I'm not feeling well. I'm not feeling well. I'm not doing anything. find it difficult to concentrate. I want to be able to concentrate better. I don't want distractions. I want to stay focused on what I'm working on. So therefore, anytime in the future when I enter my level, I'll just simply take a deep breath and I will continue to concentrate. And if any distractions come, I'll simply let them go and bring my attention back to the subject matter I'm working on. If I'm at my ideal place of relaxation and some thoughts intrude and I start paying attention to them, I'll just let them go, take a deep breath, I'll relax, I'll stay at my ideal place of relaxation. I'll continue to focus on that. Use your level to correct any problems by stating the problem, stating the goal, making a plan, working your plan, and then let it happen. Cause it to happen. That's the way to do that, okay? So it's an outstanding thing and you'll find as we go through the course, those same basic steps work all the way through, okay? Later, you'll learn how to incorporate visualization into your programming and incorporate trigger mechanisms like the three fingers technique. It can help you do it even better. All of these techniques will help you to take more control of your life so that you'll have more choices. You'll be able to choose success whenever you want to. Now, when you're ready to use a conditioning exercise to enter your level and program this technique, then you can go ahead and do so. Remember what I mentioned before, though, to be sure that you review these formulas. If you want to listen to the conditioning cycle at beta is fine because when you do it, you want to be thoroughly relaxed, not have any more questions about it, know exactly what you're doing and why you're doing it. And once you do it and you've completed the conditioning cycle, then you want to move on and do something else and not go back and study the formula or anything else again until after you've had at least one sleep and dream cycle. Until after a night's sleep, basically, is what you say, okay? Now, you can go right ahead and use these techniques tonight, any or all of them. Get started with them. Get them working for you, okay? This conditioning lasts about 21 minutes. During that time, you'll imagine that you're actually using the sleep control technique. You'll do it mentally with your imagination. Then we'll go ahead and program the other two techniques as well. So when you're ready, when you've got about 21, 22 minutes, then get ready for a nice relaxing session at level. Thank you.

