Congratulations! You have just completed the most advanced self-programming course in the world.
Now you can do things that most people only dream about.
You've learned how to enter the powerful alpha-brainwave level with conscious awareness
and how to activate your mind to analyze information and come up with solutions to problems while remaining at alpha
so that you can program yourself for success.

You've learned how powerful positive thinking is.
You also learned practical techniques to help you actually practice positive thinking and to maintain a positive mental attitude regardless of what's going on around you.

You've learned how to go to sleep without drugs and wake up without clocks.

You've learned the awake control technique that you can use to remain awake and refreshed even longer when you need to.

You've learned how to remember dreams and how to use them to understand yourself better and to get information to help you make decisions and solve problems.

You've learned how to use your mental screen to help you set and achieve your goals.

You've learned techniques that you can use to strengthen your memory.

You've learned how to use the three fingers technique for self-programming to remember better, recall information for tests.

You've learned how to use the mirror of the mind technique for self-programming.

You've learned how to enter the theta level where you can correct problems rooted at theta.

You've learned how to control pain to relieve tension in my grain headaches.

You've learned techniques to help you neutralize negative past programming and make room for positive new programs to help you overcome limiting belief systems and to be more successful.

You've learned how to practice mentally so that you will perform better physically.

You've learned how to stop bad habits in their tracks and start good new habits that lead you to greater success.

You've created a mental mentor to inspire you and help you and all that you do.

That's not all the techniques that are offered in the Silva method.

Part of the Silva method is involved with training your brain so that you can use it to do more than you could in the past.

Another part of the Silva method training is involved with also training your mind so that you can use it in more ways than you do now.

When your mind has been trained in this manner, here are some of the things you'll be able to do.

You can choose to use your positive thoughts to influence other people even at great distances, mentally.

You will learn how to use your mental screen so that you can communicate with any other dimension anytime you choose, even with higher intelligence to communicate what you're doing and to get guidance for what to do in the future.

You will learn several ways to use subjective communication, subjective communication to obtain information clairvoyantly, and to communicate mentally with other people in order to correct problems.

You'll learn how to interact with your environment in an entirely new way by using only your mind to detect information, not your physical senses.

When you do this, you'll develop your intuition and your creativity, the two most valuable tools that you can possess.

To help you better understand, let me tell you a story about how this new science of psychoreontology came about.

It all started with Jose Silva and his children. Jose Silva was one of those rare people who could use his intuition reliably. This was evidenced by the success that he'd had in his life. Jose Silva started with nothing. He had no father to guide him. He had no formal education or teachers to help him, no money to finance him.

Yet by the age of thirty, he had the largest radio and electronics repair business in South Texas. He had a nice home, he had a beautiful family, he had lots of friends.

As a child working in the streets of Laredo, young Jose had made many good business decisions. His fertile imagination gave him many ideas for ways to serve more people. And earn more money. Even though he had no formal business training, he made many good business decisions. He seemed to be able to do the right thing at the right time. Being on his own, he had to make his own decisions. He learned how to trust his intuition, that small voice within that they talk about, learn how to trust that to make correct decisions. 

Actually, all children between ages seven and fourteen are creative, imaginative, clairvoyant. But most of them begin to focus on physical development and the physical world and leave the mental world behind. Jose Silva, for whatever reason, maintained his mental abilities and even expanded on him. Now many other people have done the same thing. You read about them in those success books, they write. But those people have seldom been able to transfer their ability to anyone else.

Very few have actually been able to show anyone else, even their own children, how to do what they did. They are not able to transfer their special abilities to other people. They talk about what they do. But nine out of ten people are unable to do what they do, no matter how hard they try, because they don't function creatively and clairvoyantly, the same as those super successful people.

Well, you know something, it was different with Jose Silva, because he was different. At the age of thirty, he made a commitment to help his children to be more successful. He tried talking with them like all parents do. He used the same techniques as everybody else, encouragement, rewards, threats, please. When he was introduced to psychology, he even tried that. When he began to study psychology, he read about how Freud had used hypnosis, so he tried that too. Soon he found that his own clairvoyant abilities were being transferred to his children. Actually, before his children began to exhibit their clairvoyant abilities, he didn't even realize that he himself was a clairvoyant. That's typical. Most of the super successful people believe that they function just like everybody else. Why would they think otherwise? So they tell everybody else what to do, how to do it, what they did, and said, you do the same thing, then they can't understand why most people are unable to do things the way that they do it. But Jose Silva saw the difference. He saw the difference in his own children, and he recognized the difference between himself and most other adults, the difference in the way that he used his mind.

While most people guessed wrong the majority of the time when they had to guess, Jose Silva's guesses were usually right. Now anybody who is right more times than they're wrong has kind of been pretty successful in life. Besides working with his own children, Mr. Silva also worked with other people who asked him for help. He discovered that he was able to transfer his special abilities to other people besides his own children. In fact, over several years of research, he found that he could transfer his abilities to anyone who wanted him. He had to do it at very deep levels of mind, not hypnosis, that wasn't reliable. Instead he developed his own method of teaching people how to reach deep levels of mind so that he could then transfer his own abilities to them. This was done with hundreds of people, but soon he found that thousands of others wanted him to do the same with them to transfer his intuitive and clairvoyant abilities to them. Well, there just wasn't enough of him to go around. So he tried a bold experiment. He took one of the people that he had transferred his abilities to and trained that person to do the same thing. And guess what? It worked. It worked. Then Jose Silva shifted his focus and began to concentrate on training trainers, not only transferring his clairvoyant abilities to them, but training them to pass these abilities on to other people. 

Now, thanks to Jose Silva and the thousands of instructors that he's trained throughout the years, millions of people all over the world can use their intuitive clairvoyant abilities to get information that they can use to correct problems, helping to make our world a better place to live. Eventually you'll become so accustomed to functioning at this level that you'll begin to do it naturally, almost to that even thinking about it any time during the day or night, whenever you need to obtain information. Very much like the natural alpha thinkers, the natural clairvoyants, they simply go through life without having to count themselves into level in order to turn on their intuition, they turn it on whenever they need it. All you need to do is to recall that special feeling of being at your level and accurately detecting information, and you will be there again and will function clairvoyantly. Well, now you know the secret of the most successful people on the planet. To secret that researchers like Napoleon Hill searched for for half a century, they observed it. Napoleon Hill observed that some few special people were able to do this, but that most people were not, and he never found a way to teach how to do it. You can read about it and think and grow rich in other books that Napoleon Hill wrote. How valuable is it to develop your mind in this manner? Well, Napoleon Hill, he was the first person to make an extensive study of successful people, what they did, and how they did it, and what led to their success. He put it this way, this was in his laws of success course. He said `the individual who discovers a way to stimulate his mind artificially, arouse it, and cause it to go beyond the average stopping point frequently, is sure to be rewarded with fame and fortune, if his efforts are of a constructive nature`. He was talking about what you do when you enter the alpha level and function clairvoyantly. Well, now the choice is yours. You know what to do, you know how to do it. We need more problem solvers on this planet. Humanity can, humanity must find ways to correct the problems that we're facing. With most people using only the left brain hemisphere to think with, the problems are getting worse. Reinventing government is not going to correct the problems. Reinventing the corporation is not going to correct the problem. It's not the institutions that are at fault. It's the people who are involved in them. There's no way we're ever going to pass enough laws, make enough regulations, come up with enough procedures to solve all of our problems. This is a human problem. We need human beings to function in a better way. When people are able to use more of their brains and more of their minds to get what they want. When people know that they can get everything they want for themselves, everything they need, without taking anything away from anyone else, without hurting anybody else, then we can have peace on our planet. There'll be no need for wars, there'll be no reason for crime. We can truly have peace once people learn to do this. And it all starts with a simple choice, and proceeds just one choice at a time. It's no big deal. You can do your part by choosing to practice, by choosing to practice the deep relaxation exercise, by choosing to practice the techniques, by choosing to develop your visualization and imagination with the memory pegs.

Those are your choices, just one choice, just one choice at a time. Not a big project, not something that you have to make a commitment forever. One choice at a time is the way that you choose success. And please, share your successes with me, drop me a line, let me know how you're doing. Let me know if we can publish these in our newsletter to inspire other graduates by what you're doing. Now, if we have a special treat for you, we'll join Jose Silva at an instructor training session here in Laredo, and listen in as he answers questions for Silva Method Lecturers and Lectury Candidates. In these excerpts from the instructor training session, he recalls details of his research that led directly to the development of the Silva Method. 

He also gives his own unique insight into the application of many of the formula type techniques that you've learned in his home study course. You know, it was his unique insights as much as anything else that made it possible for him to develop this course.

He sees things differently than most people do. He can make the connections of what's really significant and really important Then he can express his ideas in a way that's totally unique to him. The way he explains these things in here and the way he does it is based on that half a century more than 50 years of experience that he's had in this field, what he's seen, and what he's deemed important from it.

It's a great experience when you have an opportunity to listen to Mr. Silva. He's accumulated more than 50 years experience in a field, you know, 22 years of research, plus his own teaching experience, and the experiences of thousands of other Silva Method Lecturers worldwide during the past 30 years.

I know you're going to enjoy listening to him. Well, thank you once again for attending the Choose Success Home Study course and permitting us to work for you and with you. I hope that you choose to drop us a note and let us know how you're doing. I hope we have an opportunity to work together again in the future.

Please write to us and let us know how you're doing and how we can be of service to you. Choose to keep practicing, to establish your level at very deep levels of mind, choose to persist and to get each technique working for you. Choose to call on us for help whenever we can be of service. Choose to network with other Choose Success Home Study course graduates and help one another.

Choose to do these things and you will be choosing success.
Thank you.
